{{DISPLAYTITLE:User:Pĩxęlㄔღ}}

[https://vrchat.com/home/user/usr_a0a7676a-e6d2-4660-9a48-65074e872a29 Pĩxęlㄔღ] maintains professional experience in enterprise cybersecurity environments, specializing in defensive security and infrastructure resilience.

Active across multiple VRChat groups and technical initiatives, Pĩxęl focuses on independent tooling, governance systems, and reliability-oriented experimentation within social VR environments.

== Roles ==
* Founder – [https://vrchat.com/home/group/grp_cefa3765-a0c9-4901-847f-8471b63dd9e4 Lovescape]  
* Co-Owner – [https://vrchat.com/home/group/grp_e49b2c54-d9c7-4e7e-b5ab-5b3ad128798f Soak it up (SIU)]  
* Owner – Meta Visions  
* Owner – VR HUB  
* Owner – [https://vrc.store VRC.Store]  
* Owner – VR.API  
* Owner – [https://github.com/0xE69/VRCGT VRCGT (VRChat Group Tools)]  

== Projects ==

=== Lovescape ===
Founder of Lovescape, a VRChat group centered on inclusive, emotionally supportive, and creative social experiences. The group emphasizes structured moderation, respectful interaction, and collaborative world-building.

=== VRCGT (VRChat Group Tools) ===
An independent toolkit designed to assist VRChat communities with structured group management and moderation workflows.

Focus areas include:
* Administrative automation  
* Governance tooling  
* Infrastructure-backed utilities  

Source code: https://github.com/0xE69/VRCGT

=== VR.API ===
An experimentation project exploring secure API interaction patterns and backend orchestration relevant to social platforms and community-driven systems.

=== VRC.STORE ===
[https://vrc.store VRC.STORE] is an independent marketplace project currently in development (target: 2026).

The platform is intended to support multi-vendor distribution of VRChat-related content, including avatars, assets, worlds, and creator tools.

Development is ongoing.

=== VR HUB ===
A collaborative initiative focused on structured VR projects, infrastructure discussions, and shared experimentation within social VR spaces.

== Technical Background ==
Experience includes enterprise and defensive security environments with emphasis on:

* DevOps and infrastructure automation  
* Security architecture and system hardening  
* Cloud-native deployment models  
* Automation frameworks  
* Governance systems for online communities  

Security-related work is conducted ethically and with authorization.

== Professional Profile ==
Background includes enterprise cybersecurity and infrastructure engineering with focus on:

* Defensive security practices and threat simulation  
* Secure cloud architecture and system hardening  
* Automation frameworks for reliability and governance  
* API-driven service design and backend orchestration  
* Observability, telemetry, and operational resilience  

Security-related work is conducted ethically, legally, and with proper authorization.

This professional experience informs a cautious, privacy-respecting approach to community tooling and VR-related infrastructure projects.

== Community Involvement ==
Participation within VRChat centers on:

* Group leadership and organization  
* Tooling experimentation  
* Infrastructure and moderation discussions  
* Cross-community collaboration  

== Disclaimer ==
Pĩxęlㄔღ is '''not affiliated with, employed by, contracted by, or acting on behalf of VRChat Inc.'''

All projects and initiatives listed are independent and reflect personal viewpoints only.

== Philosophy ==

* Discipline your thoughts  
* Respect the real  
* Ignore the noise  

== See also ==
* [[VRChat]]
* [[Groups]]
* [[VRChat API]]