== VR Gloves ==

There are a number of gloves targeting VR use cases, such as the Contact Gloves, UDCap gloves, and Immersive gloves, amongst others. Is there a reason there is no mention of this whatsoever in the Wiki? I would at least mention it for completeness, and state that most of the current gloves on the market do not have high enough tracking fidelity for finger tracking gestures. I do however pose a conflict of interest hence why I didn't provide an edit. [[User:Usr 3f2997ae-ecf0-40cb-bcf3-f5692f5e429e|Usr 3f2997ae-ecf0-40cb-bcf3-f5692f5e429e]] ([[User talk:Usr 3f2997ae-ecf0-40cb-bcf3-f5692f5e429e|talk]]) 13:55, 14 March 2025 (UTC)

:I mentioned this on the other Talk page but I'll put this here too.
:These kinds of pages are limited to the information of the people editing them, you are free to, and highly encouraged to add or fix any information that is missing or incorrect! It will just go through mod queue first to avoid vandalism. [[User:Usr_c272d4fe-f1f8-4d77-8008-cad6cb81d6cd|<span style="color:#9966ff;">TrixxedHeart</span> <span style="font-size:6px; position: relative; top: -1em;">(They/Them)</span>]] ([[User Talk:Usr_c272d4fe-f1f8-4d77-8008-cad6cb81d6cd|talk]]) 15:09, 14 March 2025 (UTC)

::I'll re-phrase what I mentioned on the [[Talk:Full-Body Tracking]] page. I created a page for [[Guides:Types of tracking]]. Feel free to jump in. Please also note that while experimental and industry hardware can be mentioned, articles for body tracking is more geared towards notable consumer-ready and realistically afforable hardware (feel free to talk about it on that guides page if there is a glove or hand controller that meets that criteria; it's quite uncommon to find enthusiasts or discussions regarding them!), and software that is compatible with VRChat through OSC or software that doesn't modify the client. Thanks! Also feel free to [https://wiki.vrchat.com/discord join the VRCWiki Discord server] if you wish. [[User:Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0|Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0]] ([[User talk:Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0|talk]]) 14:16, 15 March 2025 (UTC)