<languages/>
{{Noticebox/Official}} Los '''baneos''' son acciones de moderación que implican la suspensión o eliminación de un usuario o cuenta de un espacio.

 ==Grupo de baneos==
 La administración de un [[Special:MyLanguage/Groups|grupo]] de VRChat tiene la capacidad de banear usuarios de sus grupos. Según las [[Special:MyLanguage/Community Guidelines | normal de la comunidad]] de VRChat, los grupos pueden moderar sus estancias como consideren adecuado, y pueden usar baneos para hacer cumplir sus reglas; sin embargo, las reglas deberían ser razonablemente justas. La moderación de las estancias debería informar a los ocupantes sobre cualquier regla adicional que deba seguirse.

 Los grupos son propiedad de otros usuarios de la comunidad de VRChat y están moderados por ellos. Ser baneado de un grupo solo evitará que puedas unirte al grupo y a las estancias organizadas por ese grupo. Eludir los baneos mediante una cuenta alternativa se considera acoso y va en contra de los [[Special:MyLanguage/Terms of Service | términos de servicio]] de VRChat y de las normas de la comunidad.

 Idealmente, los grupos deberían aceptar apelaciones y procesos de moderación, pero no están obligados a hacerlo. Utilizar una cuenta alternativa para preguntar sobre un baneo sigue considerándose acoso. El equipo de confianza y seguridad de VRChat no intervendrá en apelaciones o disputas relacionadas con grupos. Sin embargo, si un grupo está violando los términos de servicio o las normas de la comunidad de VRChat, el grupo y los usuarios implicados pueden ser [[Special:MyLanguage/Reporting|denunciados]].

<blockquote> <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">VRChat's Community Guidelines involving '''Group Instances''' are as follows:</span>

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">*''Groups may moderate their instances how they see fit. Group moderators can employ verbal or text-based warnings, system-level warnings, kicks, or even bans to enforce their rules.''</span>

 <div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
*''Group instance rules must be reasonable. In other words, people should be told about the rules, the rules should be fair, and the rules should make sense for the environment.''
**''It is the responsibility of the Group to inform Group instance occupants of any Group rules they need to follow.''
</div>
 <div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
**''Any rules should be fair. They should be possible to follow, and they should follow the spirit of the VRChat Community Guidelines: No hate, no harm, no harassment.''
*''Groups may not enforce rules that supersede VRChat's rules. You can't enforce a rule that breaks *our* rules.''
</div>
 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">*''Groups should handle Group moderation appeals and processes. If a user contacts VRChat Trust and Safety regarding a Group ban, they will be directed back to the Group.''</span>
 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">**''Having an appeal process for your Group is ideal. However, you aren't *required* to have an appeal process for your Group. You are welcome to deny appeals, or inform users that “no appeals are accepted.”''</span>
</blockquote>

 ==Cuentas baneadas de VRChat==
 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Account bans are suspensions from VRChat's platform, and related services. These suspensions are typically tied to a [[Special:MyLanguage/VRChat account | VRChat account]]. Any bans involving a VRChat account are enforced by VRChat's ''Trust & Safety'' team, and decisions are made, based on the [[Special:MyLanguage/Community Guidelines | Community Guidelines]], [[Special:MyLanguage/Terms of Service | Terms of Service]], and other related policies. It is the responsibility of the user to read, interpret, and understand VRChat's Community Guidelines, and Terms of Service; it is also the end-user's responsibility to secure their account from being compromised.</span>

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">When receiving an infraction, the e-mail address used to create the account will receive a message from VRChat's Trust & Safety team, mentioning the moderation action(s) taken against the account, the time and date when the infraction was applied, how long the suspension lasts, and the reason(s) for the ban. It will not be possible to log into VRChat or related services until the ban expires. Attempts to circumvent a ban will incur further punishment for the primary account, as well as any other accounts involved.</span>

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">To appeal a VRChat ban, submit a {{VRC link|https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us/requests/new|moderation ticket}} on the VRChat's Help Desk.</span>

 === No compartas tu cuenta de VRChat ===
<blockquote> <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">''"You should never share your account details with anyone else, for any reason. This includes sharing your password with any other user via any means. Never send your password to anyone, not even someone claiming to be a part of the VRChat Team.''</span><br>

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">''We realize that users often commission avatars and content from others, and that the commissioner will upload content for those users. Sharing account information for this purpose is strongly discouraged. The best way to share content with another user is to export a Unity Package for that user, and send it via secure means."</span><ref> <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">[https://medium.com/@vrchat/account-security-16be982332 "Account Security"] on ''[https://medium.com/@vrchat Medium]''. Dated June 11, 2018. Retrieved September 20, 2025.</span></ref></blockquote>''

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Other users, friends, family members, or parties involved with a commission should <u>never</u> be given access your VRChat account, or be given your password on the platform, [[Special:MyLanguage/VRChat SDK | VRChat SDK]], or otherwise. A compromised account can lead to its suspension. To prevent account hijackings, please secure your account with a thoughtful password. It is encouraged to apply [[Special:MyLanguage/Two-Factor Authentication (2FA)|two-factor authentication (2FA)]] on an external device for improved security.</span>

 ==Baneos de Discord==
 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Discord bans, are suspensions applied towards a user's Discord account, on any of VRChat's [[Special:MyLanguage/Discord servers | Discord servers]]. VRChat uses Discord as a platform for their community to socialize. While using any of VRChat's Discord servers, do not violate Discord's Terms of Service, as well as discuss or post anything that may violate VRChat's Terms of Service, Community Guidelines, or other policies.</span>

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Rules for VRChat's servers are listed in the ''#rules'' channel on the main VRChat Discord server, and VRChat Wiki Discord server. Rules for the VRChat Localization Discord server, are listed in ''#rules-and-faq''. [[Special:MyLanguage/Discord servers#Roles and responsibilities|Volunteer chat moderators]] are trusted to moderate as they see fit; moderation action can occur at any time, for any reason.</span>

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Appeals, regarding suspensions or bans, from any of VRChat's Discord servers can be submitted as a {{VRC link|https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us/requests/new|moderation ticket}} on the VRChat's Help Desk.</span>

 ==Baneos de la Wiki de VRChat==
 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Misconduct, or active defiance against implemented VRCWiki rules and policies, on either the VRChat Wiki, or the VRChat Wiki Discord server could lead to suspension of those accounts. The [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Team|VRChat Wiki team]] are volunteers, actively overseeing the development of the VRChat Wiki, and have permissions to moderate as seen fit.</span>

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Rules for the VRChat Wiki Discord server are posted in ''#rules.'' [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Guidelines|Guidelines]], and the [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Disciplinary policy|disciplinary policy]] for the VRChat Wiki are available to read. While using the VRChat Wiki Discord server, do not violate Discord's Terms of Service, as well as discuss or post anything that may violate VRChat's Terms of Service, Community Guidelines, or other policies.</span>

 == Recursos oficiales ==
 Recursos generales de VRChat

 * [https://docs.vrchat.com/docs/vrchat-safety-and-trust-system%7CVRChat Sistema de seguridad y confianza] en ''docs.vrchat.com''
* {{VRC link|https://hello.vrchat.com/community|Normas de la comunidad}} en ''hello.vrchat.com''
* {{VRC link|https://hello.vrchat.com/legal|Términos de servicio}} en ''hello.vrchat.com''

 '''Recursos de ayuda de la página web'''

 * {{VRC link|https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us|VRChat Help Desk}} en ''help.vrchat.com''
** {{VRC link|https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us/categories/33315111286931-Safety-in-VRChat|Guías de seguridad en VRChat}} en ''help.vrchat.com''
* [https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us/articles/48406881241875-Trust-Safety-Reporting-Changes Cambios en los informes de confianza y seguridad] (Enero 2026)
* [https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us/articles/33302819755539-Safety-Resources-For-Players Recursos de seguridad: Para jugadores]
* [https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us/articles/33301610887443-Safety-Resources-For-Parents Recursos de seguridad: Para padres y tutores]
* [https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us/articles/42024584226579-VRChat-Crisis-Resource Recurso de crisis de VRChat]

 Artículos de ayuda de la página web

 * [https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us/articles/360062658553-I-want-to-report-someone Bloquear, desbloquear y denunciar usuarios en VRChat]
* [https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us/articles/360062658553-I-want-to-report-someone Quiero denunciar a alguien]
* [https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us/articles/43984755280403-Reporting-Avatars-and-Worlds Denunciar avatares y mundos]
* [https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us/articles/43984160296083-Moderating-Stickers-Prints-and-Items Moderar pegatinas, instantáneas and objetos]

 ==Véase también==
 Reglas y normas
*[[Special:MyLanguage/Terms of Service | Términos de servicio]]
*[[Special:MyLanguage/Community Guidelines | Normas de la comunidad]]
*[[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Guidelines | VRCWiki:Normas]]
*[[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Disciplinary policy | VRCWiki:Política disciplinaria]]
Artículos de la plataforma de VRChat
*[[Special:MyLanguage/Trust and Safety | Confianza y seguridad]]
*[[Special:MyLanguage/Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) | Verificación en dos pasos (2FA)]]
*[[Special:MyLanguage/Reporting | Denunciar]]
*[[Special:MyLanguage/Groups | Grupos]]

 ==Referencias==