{{Noticebox/Official}}

The '''Rivals of Aether 2''' collaboration was a partnership between [[Special:MyLanguage/VRChat|VRChat]] and [[wikipedia:Rivals of Aether|Rivals of Aether]] developer Aether Studios for ''[[wikipedia:Rivals of Aether II|Rivals of Aether II]]''. In February 2026, both companies announced five official Rivals-themed avatars for [[Special:MyLanguage/VRChat|VRChat]]'s [[Special:MyLanguage/Avatar Marketplace|Avatar Marketplace]], which became available February 11, 2026, the same day as the announcements.

== Overview ==

On February 11, 2026, VRChat announced the collaboration on Bluesky, and the avatars appeared on the Avatar Marketplace that day.<ref name="vrchat-bluesky-rivals"> VRChat (@vrchat.com), Bluesky post announcing the VRChat × Rivals&nbsp;2 collaboration and Avatar Marketplace release (February 11, 2026). [https://bsky.app/profile/vrchat.com @vrchat.com on Bluesky]. Retrieved April 8, 2026.</ref> Aether Studios published a Steam news post for ''Rivals of Aether II'' the same day, naming the five characters, embedding an announcement trailer, and describing the avatars as premium implementations.<ref name="steam-rivals-vrchat">[https://store.steampowered.com/news/app/2217000/view/500598118234980394 "Rivals of Aether and VRChat Collide!"] — Steam news for ''Rivals of Aether II'' (AppID 2217000). Dated February 11, 2026. Retrieved April 8, 2026.</ref> The announcement trailer was also published on YouTube.<ref name="youtube-trailer"> [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZR99wFpLrWY "Rivals of Aether and VRChat Collide!"] — announcement trailer on YouTube (linked from the Steam news post). Retrieved April 8, 2026.</ref>

== ''Rivals of Aether II'' ==

''[[wikipedia:Rivals of Aether II|Rivals of Aether II]]'' is a [[wikipedia:Platform fighter|platform fighting game]] developed by Aether Studios and directed by Dan Fornace.<ref name="wp-rivals2">[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rivals_of_Aether_II "Rivals of Aether II"] on ''Wikipedia''. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref> A sequel to the 2017 indie fighter ''[[wikipedia:Rivals of Aether|Rivals of Aether]]'', it was released on October 23, 2024 on [[wikipedia:Steam (service)|Steam]] for [[wikipedia:Microsoft Windows|Windows]].<ref name="wp-rivals2" /> The game uses [[wikipedia:Unreal Engine 5|Unreal Engine 5]] and features 2.5D graphics with 3D character models, replacing the original's 2D pixel art style.<ref name="wp-rivals2" />

The game was originally announced as ''Rivals 2'' in April 2022, but was renamed to ''Rivals of Aether II'' in September 2024 to avoid confusion with ''[[wikipedia:Marvel Rivals|Marvel Rivals]]''.<ref name="wp-rivals2" /> A [[wikipedia:Kickstarter|Kickstarter]] campaign in November 2023 raised over US$1.07 million from more than 16,000 backers against an initial US$200,000 goal.<ref name="ks-rivals2">[https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/danfornace/rivals-2/description "Rivals 2 by Aether Studios"] on ''Kickstarter''. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref> As of April 2026, the game's roster includes 16 playable characters, with all post-launch character additions released as free updates.<ref name="wp-rivals2" />

== Content ==

=== Avatars ===

The collaboration added five ''Rivals of Aether II'' characters as marketplace avatars.<ref name="steam-rivals-vrchat"/> Each character is an established part of the ''Rivals of Aether'' franchise:<ref name="roa-characters">[https://rivalsofaether.com/characters/ "Characters"] on ''rivalsofaether.com''. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref>

* '''Absa''' — titled "The Storm Architect", Absa is an engineer and martial artist from the Air Alliance in the Archai Mountains. She uses lightning and weather control in combat.<ref name="roa-characters" />
* '''Clairen''' — titled "The Flame's Salvation", Clairen is a warrior from a distant future timeline who wields a plasma sword. She was originally added as DLC in the first ''Rivals of Aether'' and returns in the sequel.<ref name="roa-characters" /><ref name="clairen-reveal">[https://rivalsofaether.com/character-reveal-clairen-the-flames-salvation/ "Character Reveal: Clairen, The Flame's Salvation"] on ''rivalsofaether.com''. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref>
* '''Fleet''' — titled "The Archer of Justice", Fleet is a fox from Julesvale who originated in the spin-off ''[[wikipedia:Dungeons of Aether|Dungeons of Aether]]''. She made her platform fighter debut in ''Rivals of Aether II''.<ref name="fleet-reveal">[https://aetherstudios.com/news/fleet-the-archer-of-justice-is-coming-to-rivals-2/ "Fleet, The Archer of Justice, is Coming to Rivals 2!"] on ''aetherstudios.com''. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref>
* '''Kragg''' — titled "The Earth's Bastion", Kragg is a beetle-like defender of the Aetherian Forest and one of the Wall Runners who patrol the Rock Wall. He can control the earth with his will.<ref name="roa-characters" />
* '''Zetterburn''' — a lion from the Firelands and a general of the Fire Capital, Zetterburn is known for his razor-sharp claws and flame control. He is one of the original roster characters from the first game.<ref name="roa-characters" />

=== Features ===

The avatars included custom colors (including color sliders), custom emotes (including gesture-based emotes), togglable accessories, dynamic eyes, and viseme lip sync.<ref name="steam-rivals-vrchat"/><ref name="vrchat-bluesky-rivals"/>

== See also ==

* [[Special:MyLanguage/Avatar Marketplace|Avatar Marketplace]]
* [[Special:MyLanguage/VRChat Credits|VRChat Credits]]
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Events|Events]]

== References ==

<references />

== Official resources ==

* [https://bsky.app/profile/vrchat.com @vrchat.com on Bluesky] — collaboration and Avatar Marketplace announcement (February 11, 2026).
* [https://store.steampowered.com/news/app/2217000/view/500598118234980394 "Rivals of Aether and VRChat Collide!"] — Steam news for ''Rivals of Aether II'' (February 11, 2026).
* [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZR99wFpLrWY Announcement trailer] on YouTube (linked from the Steam news post).
* [https://rivalsofaether.com/characters/ Character roster] on ''rivalsofaether.com''.
* [https://store.steampowered.com/app/2217000 ''Rivals of Aether II''] on Steam.