{{Noticebox/Guidelines_translation}}
<languages/>
<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Notability Notability] is the concept of how to determine what kinds of content is worth including in the Wiki. While there are already rule governing the [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Guidelines#Type_of_permitted_content|types of content permitted]] on this Wiki as a whole, notability guidelines apply within those categories to govern specific pages and their inclusion.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Notability on the VRChat Wiki determines whether a subject merits its own article. Notability is a key principle to ensure that the content on the VRChat Wiki remains verifiable, relevant, and significant within the VRChat community.
</div> 

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
This is not a guarantee that a topic will necessarily be handled as a separate, stand-alone page. Editors may use their discretion to merge or group two or more related topics into a single article. These guidelines only outline how suitable a topic is for its own article or list. They do not limit the content of an article or list.
</div>
<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
== Notability criteria for worlds ==
A VRChat World is considered notable enough to warrant an article in the Main namespace if it meets one of the following criteria:
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* [[List of worlds created by VRChat|Official VRChat worlds]].
* Worlds featured by VRChat (Spotlight and special event categories such as VKet and Jams).
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
A VRChat world is considered notable enough to warrant an article in the Community Namespace if it meets one of the following criteria:
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* World that have had notable independent external coverage by reliable sources, such as [[Special:MyLanguage/Community:Treehouse in the Shade|Treehouse in the Shade]].
* Worlds that meet all of the following statistical criteria:
** Worlds that have made it out of Community Labs AND
** Have at least 10,000 visits or 1,000 favorites.
</div>
<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
=== Exclusions ===
The following types of worlds are not allowed on the VRChat Wiki, even if they meet the above criteria:
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Worlds which violate VRChat's Terms of Service and Community Guidelines.
* Worlds that prominently or excessively feature the following concepts. The consistency in which these exclusions apply will vary based on context. If unsure, always refer to VRChat's Terms of Service and Community Guidelines.
** Sexual content and nudity
** Hateful and offensive content
** Drug use
</div>
<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==Notability criteria for avatars==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Avatar pages should only be created for the following types of avatars:
* Official VRChat avatars
* Avatars part of the [[Public Avatars|Public Avatar Row]]
* Avatars, otherwise featured by VRChat
* Notable avatars made by the community
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
For a newly created Avatar page, it should be obvious or made obvious, that such Avatar or Avatar Type is notable enough. Therefore it is advised to create a [[VRCWiki:How to Contribute#Discussion Page|Discussion page]] right after a new Avatar page has been created with a note as for why the page was made. This helps to evaluate notability. Pages where this cannot be easily ascertained with may be deleted.
</div>
<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
== General notability guidelines ==
For other types of content and subjects, the following guidelines apply to determine notability:
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* A subject should have received significant coverage in reliable sources that are independent of the subject.
* The coverage should be more than trivial or incidental. It should provide meaningful insight into the subject.
* Content should be verifiable and should maintain a [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Neutral point of view|Neutral Point of View]] (NPOV).
</div>
<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
== Content quality ==
All content must be verifiable if possible and contributors should use common sense. Avoid advertising and use neutral language. The goal is to inform, not to promote.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
By adhering to these guidelines, we ensure that the VRChat Wiki remains a reliable and valuable resource for the VRChat community.
</div>
[[Category:VRCWiki policies{{#translation:}}]]
----
{{Navbox/Wiki_policies}}