{{Noticebox/Official}}

In general, Quality Assurance (QA) is to find problems before users do and helps engineers ship stable updates. For that, QA plans and runs tests, reproduces issues, documents steps, triages bugs, and verifies fixes.

== Submitting bug reports ==

''See [[Special:MyLanguage/Guides:How to write efficient bug reports|Guides:How to write efficient bug reports]].''

== General Testing ==

The '''General Testing''' was formed in October 2018 group facilitates communication for various closed beta tests and currently has about 250 users. These tests sometimes progress to [[Open Beta|Open Beta]] and typically cover [[VRChat SDK|VRChat SDK]] updates and upcoming features. The first test was to improve voice communication. Most communication is handled via [[Discord servers#VRChat_General_Testing|Discord]].

=== How to join ===

Users could join via self-invite until shortly after the [[Open Sound Control|OSC]] release in 2022.
Participation is by invite only. Please do not ask to join.

== Community Testers Program ==

The '''Community Testers Program''' was formed in April 2025 and consists of fewer than 20 members with several years of notable contributions in bug reporting. The program is managed by VRChat’s QA team with most communication handled via [[Discord servers|Discord]]. Eligible members receive the [[Badges#Community_Tester_badges|Community Tester badge.]]

[https://vrchat.com/home/group/grp_228b77e3-e2c8-4d80-8941-65ed70f0e5d9 VRChat Community Testers] - TESTER.0000

=== How to join ===

Participation is by invite only. Please do not ask to join.

== See also ==

* [[Special:MyLanguage/Discord servers|Discord servers]]
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Open Beta|Open Beta]]
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Reporting#Reporting a bug|Reporting#Reporting a bug]]
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Guides:How to write efficient bug reports|Guides:How to write efficient bug reports]]