{{Noticebox/Community}}
{{Infobox/Avatar
|name= Milworm
|image=
|author= AceJay
|description= This worm has gone by many names, and has been re-interpreted many different times, but this is the one that started it all, Milworm. <!-- Features a basic customization wheel with several body, face, eye, and color options, (Quest version excludes color options besides body hue shift) and Includes GoGo Loco. Excellent performance on PC, Medium performance on Quest.-->
|platform= PC, Android, iOS
|features= SDK3, Visemes
|id= avtr_1aee02a5-352d-424d-be36-0d1235fc9447
|published= October 16, 2025
}}
'''Milworm''', also known as the '''Marcus the Worm''', is an [[Special:MyLanguage/Avatar Marketplace|Avatar Marketplace]] avatar & [[Special:MyLanguage/Public Avatars|public avatar]] in [[Special:MyLanguage/VRChat|VRChat]]. The character originated as an internet meme within VRChat in early 2025, when Twitch streamer [https://www.twitch.tv/jouffa Jouffa] portrayed it with a custom worm avatar and a distinctive text-to-speech voice. Official marketing has featured the character alongside content creators Roflgator and Jouffa.

== Origin ==
{{Infobox/Avatar
|name= SpindleWorm
|image=
|author= AceJay
|description=
|platform= PC
|features= SDK2, Visemes, Impostors
|id= avtr_29230ab2-09cf-450e-9c88-20339a3126c0
|published= March 15, 2021
}}
Marcus the Worm is a VRChat character controlled by Twitch streamer [https://www.twitch.tv/jouffa Jouffa], who uses full-body motion tracking to animate the character's movements.<ref name="providr">[https://providr.com/marcus-the-worm-everything-you-need-to-know-about-the-viral-sensation/ "Marcus the Worm: Everything You Need to Know About the Viral Sensation"] on ''PROVIDR''. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref> The avatar is based on the "Spindleworm" model designed by AceJayStudios (<code>@acejaystudios</code>), a VRChat avatar creator known for worm and alien-themed designs.<ref name="providr" /> Jouffa uses the "Reading" voice from TTSLabs, a text-to-speech system, to produce the character's deep, monotone voice.<ref name="providr" /> The character is known for deadpan, surreal dialogue and absurdist humor.

Roflgator is a content creator and Twitch streamer who hosts collaborative VRChat streams, including the improvisational roleplaying series ''The Night Crew''.<ref name="kym">[https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/marcus-the-worm "Marcus the Worm"] on ''Know Your Meme''. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref> Marcus frequently appears in Roflgator's streams, with Roflgator serving as the character's primary scene partner.

== Design ==
The avatar depicts a bipedal worm-like character with a segmented body, based on the "Spindleworm" model created by AceJayStudios. The character's visual design is consistent with its appearance in VRChat marketing materials. In streams, Jouffa animates Marcus with an awkward, swaying gait using full-body tracking.<ref name="providr" />

== Viral popularity ==
On February 6, 2025, Marcus appeared during a Roflgator VRChat stream, sitting by a campfire, speaking to other players, and walking into the fire.<ref name="kym" /> On February 14, 2025, Roflgator posted a clip of the scene to TikTok; it gained over seven million plays and one million likes within two months.<ref name="kym" />

Additional clips followed in March 2025, including a video posted on March 20 in which Marcus appeared in a department store and discussed a character named "Jimbo James," which received approximately 293,700 likes in one month.<ref name="kym" /> In late March 2025, Roflgator confirmed via X (formerly Twitter) that Jouffa was the person behind Marcus.<ref name="kym" />

Marcus the Worm videos, memes, and fan art spread across TikTok, YouTube, and X throughout early 2025, with interest peaking in late April 2025.<ref name="kym" />

== Promotion ==
{{Thumb|{{YouTube|J9Y3xNt89nc|title=Become Marcus the Milworm with roflgator and Jouffas}}}}
{{Thumb|{{YouTube|GL9RGC8HpBQ|title=The truth about Marcus the Worm {{!}} Interview (ft. roflgator)}}}}
On November 17, 2025, VRChat released a YouTube trailer titled ''Become Marcus the Milworm with roflgator and Jouffas'', starring Roflgator and Jouffa. The same day, a Bluesky post described the video as the official trailer for the Milworm (Marcus) avatar, credited the character to AceJayStudios (<code>@acejaystudios</code>), and noted community enjoyment of the character through Roflgator and Jouffa's skits. On January 20, 2026, VRChat posted on Bluesky that it planned to interview Marcus the Worm for an upcoming video and invited suggestions for questions. On March 13, 2026, VRChat published an interview titled ''The truth about Marcus the Worm | Interview (ft. roflgator)'', hosted by Sai; the video featured Marcus and Roflgator answering community questions and discussing the character's rise to popularity.

== See also ==
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Avatars|Avatars]]
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Main Menu|Main Menu]]
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Public Avatars|Public Avatars]]
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Shop|Shop]]

== References ==
<references />

== Official resources ==
* [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J9Y3xNt89nc Become Marcus the Milworm with roflgator &amp; Jouffas] — VRChat on YouTube, November 17, 2025.
* [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GL9RGC8HpBQ The truth about Marcus the Worm | Interview (ft. roflgator)] — VRChat on YouTube, March 13, 2026.
* [https://bsky.app/profile/vrchat.com @vrchat.com on Bluesky] — posts dated November 17, 2025 and January 20, 2026 regarding the Milworm (Marcus) avatar and related video.
[[Category:Avatars]]
[[Category:Needs images]]