{{Noticebox/Official}}
'''Avatar Descriptor''' refers to the '''VRC Avatar Descriptor''', a required component in the [[VRChat SDK]] that marks a Unity GameObject as a VRChat avatar.

The Avatar Descriptor is the main avatar configuration component for Avatars 3.0. It controls first-person camera placement, speech and eye behavior, playable layer assignment, expression assets, standard colliders, and lower-body behavior.

When added, it also adds a Pipeline Manager component if one is not already present. For uploads, the avatar root needs a Unity [[Animators|Animator]] component. Humanoid-specific features require a valid humanoid rig.

== View position ==
''View Position'' sets where the local player's first-person camera is placed. In Unity, it appears as a scene gizmo and is usually positioned between the avatar's eyes.

For humanoid avatars, VRChat uses T-pose calibration and the head relation to compute the in-game view offset. In practice, creators tune this through preview and in-client testing.

== Lip sync ==
The ''Lip Sync'' section defines how the avatar reacts to voice input. Creator Docs and VRC School describe five common modes:

{| class="wikitable"
! Mode
! Typical use
|-
| Default
| Runs SDK auto-detection and switches to an appropriate mode.
|-
| Viseme Blend Shape
| Recommended when the model has viseme blendshapes; maps speech to viseme shapes.
|-
| Jaw Flap Bone
| Rotates one jaw bone from voice volume.
|-
| Jaw Flap Blend Shape
| Drives one jaw blendshape from voice volume.
|-
| Viseme Parameter Only
| Only updates built-in speech parameters for animator-driven setups.
|}

VRChat exposes built-in speech-related animator parameters such as <code>Viseme</code> and <code>Voice</code>. Viseme blendshape workflows use Oculus viseme indices (<code>0-14</code>), while jaw-flap workflows use volume-style ranges for jaw drive.

== Eye look ==
''Eye Look'' is disabled by default and must be enabled before its detailed settings appear. It has three main groups:
* '''General''' sliders that control gaze behavior (for example, calmer vs. more active eye motion).
* '''Eyes''' settings for eye transforms and rotation states (straight, up, down, left, right).
* '''Eyelids''' settings, usually configured with either bones or blendshapes for blink/up/down behavior.

The SDK's preview and return controls are commonly used to validate eye and eyelid values before upload.

== Playable layers ==
The ''Playable Layers'' section assigns Avatar 3.0 Animator Controllers. By default, VRChat uses SDK sample controllers, but creators can override each slot.

Humanoid avatars use five primary layers:
* Base
* Additive
* Gesture
* Action
* FX

Generic avatars use:
* Base
* Action
* FX

Layers are evaluated in order (Base to FX), so higher layers can override lower layers when they animate the same property. Additional pose slots (T-Pose, IK Pose, Sitting) are also configured here and affect calibration and tracking behavior.

Use Animation Controllers in playable-layer slots, and avoid assigning the same controller to multiple slots.

== Expressions ==
The ''Expressions'' section links:
* A '''VRC Expression Parameters''' asset.
* A '''VRC Expressions Menu''' asset.

These assets drive in-game radial menu behavior and the custom parameters used by avatar animators. Parameter fields include name, type, default value, saved, and synced.

Custom parameter type ranges are:
* <code>Int</code>: <code>0-255</code>
* <code>Float</code>: <code>-1.0</code> to <code>1.0</code>
* <code>Bool</code>: true/false

A single menu page can contain up to 8 controls. Custom synced parameters share a 256-bit synchronization budget. Built-in VRChat animator parameters are available automatically and are usually not duplicated as custom parameters.

For cross-platform avatar variants (for example PC and Quest), custom parameters are synced by list position and type, not by parameter name.

== Colliders ==
The ''Colliders'' section defines standard avatar colliders used by VRChat Contacts and PhysBones integration.

By default, this section can auto-configure standard colliders, but each collider can also be set to default, custom values, or disabled. These standard colliders do not affect avatar performance rating.

Finger and hand colliders are also used to generate global PhysBone collider behavior so hand interaction can affect compatible PhysBone setups.

== Head Chop ==
The ''Head Chop'' component (<code>VRCHeadChop</code>) controls which bones are scaled down in first-person view to prevent the local player's head from clipping into the camera. VRChat renders three clones of the local avatar: a mirror clone with the head at full scale, a shadow clone with the head at full scale, and the local clone with specified bones scaled down.

Creators can use this component to selectively show or hide parts of the avatar from the wearer's perspective only. Common uses include keeping hair visible while hiding the head mesh.

{| class="wikitable"
! Field
! Description
|-
| Target Bones
| Up to 32 bones per component, each with a scale factor (<code>0</code> to <code>1</code>) and an apply condition (<code>Always Apply</code>, <code>VR Only</code>, or <code>Non VR Only</code>).
|-
| Global Scale Factor
| Multiplied against all target bone scale factors. Useful for animating the entire head chop on or off.
|}

An avatar can have up to 16 <code>VRCHeadChop</code> components. The component can also be toggled on or off through Animator logic.

== Lower body options ==
The ''Lower Body'' options control default behavior for partial tracking situations, including:
* Whether auto-footstep correction is used for 3-point and 4-point tracking.
* Whether locomotion leg animation is forced for 6-point tracking.

These defaults can be overridden in animator logic with state behaviors such as tracking control.

== Official resources ==
* [https://creators.vrchat.com/avatars/creating-your-first-avatar/#step-5---adding-an-avatar-descriptor Creating Your First Avatar] on Creator Docs
* [https://creators.vrchat.com/avatars/playable-layers/ Playable Layers] on Creator Docs
* [https://creators.vrchat.com/avatars/expression-menu-and-controls/ Expression Menu and Controls] on Creator Docs
* [https://creators.vrchat.com/avatars/animator-parameters/ Animator Parameters] on Creator Docs
* [https://creators.vrchat.com/avatars/avatar-dynamics/contacts/ Contacts] on Creator Docs

== References ==
* [https://vrc.school/docs/Avatars/Avatar-Descriptor VRC School: The Avatar Descriptor]
* [https://vrc.school/docs/Avatars/Playable-Layers VRC School: Playable Layers]
* [https://vrc.school/docs/Avatars/Expressions-Menu-Params VRC School: Expressions Menu and Parameters]
* [https://vrc.school/docs/Avatars/SDK-Components VRC School: VRChat Avatar SDK Components]