{{Noticebox/Community}}

'''Venice Immersive''' is the extended reality (XR) competitive section of the [[wikipedia:Venice Film Festival|Venice International Film Festival]], organised by La Biennale di Venezia.<ref name="mixed-2022">[https://mixed-news.com/en/venice-immersive-2022-comes-to-vrchat/ "Venice Immersive 2022 comes to VRChat"] on ''Mixed''. 2022. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref> [[VRChat]] has participated as a platform partner since 2022, with a dedicated VRChat Worlds Gallery featuring curated selections of virtual worlds presented to on-site festival visitors.<ref name="vov-1119">[https://voicesofvr.com/1119-venice-immersive-preview-with-co-curators-expanded-vrchat-world-gallery-exhibition/ "#1119: Venice Immersive Preview with Co-Curators + Expanded VRChat World Gallery Exhibition"] on ''Voices of VR Podcast''. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref> The festival takes place on Lazzaretto Vecchio, a historic island opposite the Lido di Venezia.<ref name="lazzaretto">[https://www.visitlido.it/en/journal/venice-immersive-where-history-and-innovation-become-one/ "Venice Immersive at Lazzaretto Vecchio"] on ''Visit Lido''. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref>

== Overview ==

The section was previously known as "Venice VR Expanded" and was renamed "Venice Immersive" in 2022 to reflect the broadening scope of immersive media beyond virtual reality.<ref name="mixed-2022" /> It exhibits immersive work across a range of media, including virtual worlds.<ref name="vi-faq">[https://ask.vrchat.com/t/venice-immersive-2025-vrchat-faq/42364 "Venice Immersive 2025 - VRChat FAQ"] on ''[[ask.vrchat.com]]''. Dated March 2025. Retrieved April 8, 2026.</ref> Liz Rosenthal and Michel Reilhac curated the programme.<ref name="vov-1119" />

VRChat's involvement includes promotion and submission support for VRChat worlds, organised presentations of selected worlds to on-site attendees, which are run in parallel with the public festival dates. On-site staff assist attendees into VR, while community members guide tours through the selected worlds.<ref name="vi-faq" /> Mike Salmon, a VRChat community member known as Manglebird, has served as producer of the Worlds Gallery, scouting worlds and coordinating the tours across editions.<ref name="vov-salmon-2024">[https://voicesofvr.com/1443-venice-immersive-worlds-gallery-producer-mike-salmon-on-the-2024-selection-of-vrchat-worlds/ "#1443: Venice Immersive Worlds Gallery Producer Mike Salmon on the 2024 Selection of VRChat Worlds"] on ''Voices of VR Podcast''. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref><ref name="vov-salmon-2022">[https://voicesofvr.com/1141-venice-immersive-vrchat-worlds-gallery-producer-mike-salmon-on-curating-the-frontiers-of-diy-world-building/ "#1141: Venice Immersive VRChat Worlds Gallery Producer Mike Salmon on Curating the Frontiers of DIY World Building"] on ''Voices of VR Podcast''. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref>

== Editions ==

=== 2022 ===

The 2022 edition was the first to carry the "Venice Immersive" name and the first to include a dedicated VRChat Worlds Gallery, presenting 30 virtual worlds.<ref name="vov-1119" /><ref name="biennale-2022">[https://www.labiennale.org/en/cinema/2022/venice-immersive-0 "Venice Immersive"] on ''La Biennale di Venezia''. 2022. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref> Selected worlds were presented through curated world-hop tours lasting approximately 75 minutes each, with virtual docents guiding attendees and physical docents assisting participants on site.<ref name="vov-1119" />

=== 2023 ===

The Worlds Gallery at the 80th Venice International Film Festival featured 24 worlds, including 23 from VRChat and one from EngageXR, as part of a programme totalling 43 immersive projects from 25 countries.<ref name="biennale-2023">[https://www.labiennale.org/en/news/official-2023-venice-immersive-selection-announced "Official 2023 Venice Immersive selection announced"] on ''La Biennale di Venezia''. 2023. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref><ref name="xrmust-2023">[https://xrmust.com/xrmagazine/venice-immersive-2023-line-up/ "Venice Immersive 2023: A Complete Line-Up"] on ''XRMust''. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref>

=== 2024 ===

At the 81st Venice International Film Festival, approximately 20 VRChat worlds were selected for the Worlds Gallery, with three VRChat worlds also appearing in the main competition.<ref name="vov-salmon-2024" /><ref name="vi-faq-2024">[https://ask.vrchat.com/t/venice-immersive-2024-vrchat-faq/23122 "Venice Immersive 2024 - VRChat FAQ"] on ''[[ask.vrchat.com]]''. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref> The Venice Immersive Grand Prize went to ''Ito Meikyū'' by Boris Labbé.<ref name="ito-meikyu">[https://www.labiennale.org/en/cinema/2024/venice-immersive/ito-meikyu "Ito Meikyū"] on ''La Biennale di Venezia''. 2024. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref>

=== 2025 ===

The 82nd Venice International Film Festival ran from 27 August to 6 September 2025.<ref name="vi-faq" /> The 2025 programme presented 69 projects from 27 countries: 30 works in competition and 34 out of competition. The out-of-competition strand included 23 VRChat worlds in the ''Best of: Worlds'' category, created by independent artists from around the world.<ref name="biennale-2025">[https://www.labiennale.org/en/news/venice-immersive-selection-and-competition-announced "Venice Immersive Selection and Competition announced"] on ''La Biennale di Venezia''. 2025. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref><ref name="uploadvr-2025">[https://www.uploadvr.com/venice-immersive-2025-competition "Venice Immersive Announces 2025 Competition Line-Up"] on ''UploadVR''. Dated July 17, 2025. Retrieved April 8, 2026.</ref>

A March 2025 developer update directed world creators to the VRChat FAQ for submission categories, including ''In Competition'' and ''Best of: Worlds''.<ref>[https://ask.vrchat.com/t/developer-update-march-27-2025/42391 "Developer Update - March 27 2025"] on ''[[ask.vrchat.com]]''. Dated March 27, 2025. Retrieved April 8, 2026.</ref> During the festival window, VRChat used Bluesky to promote in-client access to Venice Immersive programming, to highlight ''The Reality of Hope'' and a related in-world exhibit, and to promote a developer stream that included hopping through Venice Immersive experiences.<ref>[https://bsky.app/profile/vrchat.com "@vrchat.com"] on ''Bluesky''. Dated August 27 and 29, 2025. Retrieved April 8, 2026.</ref>

==== Jury and awards ====

The Venice Immersive jury for 2025 consisted of Eliza McNitt (president), Gwenael François, and Boris Labbé.<ref name="variety-2025">[https://variety.com/2025/film/festivals/venice-immersive-competition-lineup-doug-liman-asteroid-1236462213/ "Doug Liman XR Thriller 'Asteroid' Leads Venice Immersive Competition Lineup"] on ''Variety''. 2025. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref> McNitt is an American filmmaker known for the VR series ''Spheres''; Labbé won the Venice Immersive Grand Prize in 2024 for ''Ito Meikyū''.<ref name="variety-2025" /><ref name="ito-meikyu" />

The jury awarded three prizes from the main competition programme:<ref name="arinsider-awards">[https://arinsider.co/2025/09/15/new-standards-in-storyliving-the-best-of-venice-immersive/ "New Standards in Storyliving: The Best of Venice Immersive"] on ''AR Insider''. Dated September 15, 2025. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref><ref name="cinemareporters">[https://cinemareporters.com/festivalgb/venice/venice2025/the-winners-of-the-venice-film-festival-2025/ "The winners of the Venice Film Festival 2025"] on ''Cinema Reporters''. 2025. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref>

* '''Grand Prize for Best Immersive Experience''' — ''The Clouds Are 2000 Metres Up'' by Singing Chen, a free-roaming VR experience adapted from a short story by Taiwanese author Wu Ming-Yi.
* '''Special Jury Prize''' — ''Less Than 5 Gr of Saffron'' by Négar Motevalymeidanshah, a VR experience following an Iranian immigrant in Berlin.
* '''Achievement Award''' — ''A Long Goodbye'' by Kate Voet and Victor Maes, an animated interactive VR installation about a pianist with dementia.

== Official resources ==

* [https://ask.vrchat.com/t/venice-immersive-2025-vrchat-faq/42364 Venice Immersive 2025 - VRChat FAQ] on ''[[ask.vrchat.com]]''
* [https://ask.vrchat.com/t/developer-update-march-27-2025/42391 Developer Update - March 27 2025] on ''[[ask.vrchat.com]]'' (submission categories)
* [https://ask.vrchat.com/t/venice-immersive-2024-vrchat-faq/23122 Venice Immersive 2024 - VRChat FAQ] on ''[[ask.vrchat.com]]''

== References ==

<references />

[[Category:Events]]