{{Infobox/Avatar
|name=Nikei
|image= File:Nikei_Thumbnail.png
|author=Original: Morph3D (Tafi)
VRChat: [https://vrchat.com/home/user/8JoV9XEdpo vrchat]
|description= 
|platform= PC
|features= SDK2, Visemes
|id= avtr_b5c8ef23-46dc-48f4-844e-f5dd3b300b92
|published= Nov 29, 2016
}}

'''Nikei''' is a PC-only [[Avatars|avatar]] uploaded by [[VRChat]], and was formerly listed as a [[Public Avatar Row|public avatar]].

==Origin==
'''Nikei''' was created by Morph3D (now Tafi) in 2016. The first public showing of Nikei was on November 3, 2016 during a video announcement<ref>[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vsQwMOQcjf8 'Ready Room and High Fidelity Announcement'] posted by Tafi on ''YouTube''; retrieved December 28, 2024.</ref> for now-defunct VR platforms ''Ready Room'', and ''[[Wikipedia:High_Fidelity,_Inc.|High Fidelity]]''<ref>[https://www.meta.com/experiences/pcvr/high-fidelity/1255907384473836/ 'High Fidelity' on Oculus Rift] on ''Meta.com''; retrieved December 28, 2024.</ref>. The next day, Tafi demonstrated another form of Nikei, when Tafi posted an image of a portable handheld window for VR<ref>[https://x.com/maketafi/status/794343617624051712 'Showcasing the portable window'] on ''X.com'' by maketafi, on November 4, 2016; retrieved December 27, 2024.</ref>.

Nikei was uploaded to VRChat on November 29, 2016. Tafi has since, made posts including Nikei where they promote newer versions of Nikei and his customizability, giving recognition the "custom avatar" meme from the VRChat community.<ref>[https://x.com/maketafi/status/1394669279920992260 'Updated version of Nikei'] on ''X.com'' by maketafi, on May 18, 2021; retrieved December 27, 2024.</ref>

==Performance==
Nikei is a PC-only avatar, and has a Good performance rating. Performance Rank, and threshold data is estimated through the PCVR client of VRChat. 

===Stats===

{| class="wikitable"
|+
!Component
!Value
!Threshold
!Performance Rank
|-
|Download size
|17.72 MB
| -
| -
|-
|Texture memory
|59.33 MB
| -
|Good
|-
|Uncompressed size
|61.51 MB
| -
| -
|-
|Triangles
|18,999
|70,000
|Excellent
|-
|Bounds
|(1.87, 2.04, 0.40)
|(5.00, 6.00, 5.00)
|Excellent
|-
|Skinned meshes
|2
|8
|Good
|-
|Basic meshes
|0
|16
|Excellent
|-
|Material slots
|8
|16
|Good
|-
|Physbone components
|0
|32
|
|-
|Physbone transforms
|0
|256
|Excellent
|-
|Physbone colliders
|0
|16
|Excellent
|-
|Physbone collision check count
|0
|256
|Excellent
|-
|Contact count
|0
|24
|Excellent
|-
|Constraints
|0
|300
|Excellent
|-
|Constraint depth
|0
|80
|Excellent
|-
|Animators
|1
|16
|Excellent
|-
|Bones
|56
|256
|Excellent
|-
|Lights
|0
|0
|Excellent
|-
|Particle systems
|0
|8
|Excellent
|-
|Total max particles
|0
|1,000
|Excellent
|-
|Mesh particles
|0
|2,000
|Excellent
|-
|Particle trails
|False
|True
|Excellent
|-
|Particle collisions
|False
|True
|Excellent
|-
|Trail renderers
|0
|4
|Excellent
|-
|Cloth meshes
|0
|1
|Excellent
|-
|Cloth max vertices
|0
|100
|Excellent
|-
|Collider count
|0
|8
|Excellent
|-
|Rigidbodies
|0
|8
|Excellent
|-
|Audio sources
|0
|8
|Excellent
|}

==References==
<references />

[[Category:Avatars]]
[[Category:Needs images]]