{{Noticebox/Community}}
{{Infobox/World
|name=Poppy Street
|image=Poppy_Street.png
|author=Coquelicotz
|capacity=50 (80)
|platforms=PC, Android
|tags=bar, social, hangout, nightlife, japanese
|id=wrld_30716c54-3565-42f7-b7c5-d398ef4faac5
|labs=Jul 7, 2019
|published=Sep 29, 2019
}}
'''Poppy Street''' (ポピー横丁) is a cross-platform world created by Coquelicotz, modeled after Golden Gai, a historic bar street in Shinjuku, Tokyo. The world recreates the atmosphere of narrow alleys lined with small bars and restaurants. Its tagline is "Alcohol is a mirror that reflects humanity. Today, in front of the mirror too."

==Overview==

Poppy Street is one of the most visited social worlds in VRChat, with over 6.5 million visits and more than 121,000 favorites. First uploaded on July 7, 2019, the world has been regularly updated and maintained by its creator and is accessible on both PC and Android platforms.

The world is a detailed recreation of a Japanese ''yokochō'' (横丁), a type of narrow alley or side street typically lined with small bars and eateries. The design draws from Golden Gai in Shinjuku, an area known for its tightly packed drinking establishments and lively nightlife atmosphere.

===Daylight Edition===

On January 11, 2025, a Daylight Edition was added to the world, allowing visitors to experience Poppy Street during daytime hours. The daytime version presents a different visual appearance while retaining the core layout and features.

==History==

Poppy Street was first uploaded to VRChat on July 7, 2019, and became a prominent social gathering space, particularly within the Japanese VRChat community.

In June 2022, HIKKY filed a trademark registration application for "Poppy Street" on behalf of Coquelicotz. The trademark was filed to prevent unauthorized third-party use of the name while ensuring users could freely create content such as videos, music, and 3D models referencing the world. Although HIKKY holds the trademark as a proxy, the company agreed contractually to not restrict its use without Coquelicotz's consent.