{{Noticebox/Community}}
{{Stub|Needs more information! Please expand, and proofread according to [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]].}}
{{Infobox/World
|name=Test Pilots
|image=File:Test_Pilots.webp
|author=[https://vrchat.com/home/user/usr_0e9e349a-c993-41d5-9b1c-b0d1e7830189 Sacchan]
|platforms=PC, Android
|tags=flight, udon, flying, dogfight, jets
|id=wrld_e4908cea-023b-4749-9ad7-a898b12996e7
|labs=Apr 16, 2020
|published=Apr 17, 2020
}}

'''Test Pilots''' is a popular user-created [[Special:MyLanguage/worlds|world]] within VRChat, developed by a creator named Sacchan. The world was officially released on April 17, 2020, and is designed to offer players an immersive flight simulation experience using a variety of aircraft, ranging from fighter jets to helicopters. It’s available on both PC and Android platforms, making it accessible to a wide range of VRChat users.

=Gameplay and features=
Test Pilots allows players to take control of different types of aircraft, engaging in activities such as dogfighting, stunt flying, and general aviation. The world supports both VR and desktop modes, though the experience is notably enhanced when using VR headsets, which allows for more realistic controls and a more immersive experience.

Key features include:

*'''Aircraft Variety:''' Players can choose from a wide selection of aircraft, including fighter jets, helicopters, and even UFOs. Each aircraft has its own unique controls and handling characteristics, providing a diverse flying experience.
*'''Locations:''' The world includes multiple environments to explore, such as an airport, a military base, an aircraft carrier, a city, and even an alien base. Each location offers different challenges and opportunities for flight maneuvers.
*'''Multiplayer Interaction:''' As a part of VRChat, Test Pilots supports multiplayer interactions, allowing users to fly together, engage in aerial combat, or simply explore the skies in groups. This social aspect is a significant draw for many players.
*'''Realistic Flight Mechanics:''' While not a fully-fledged flight simulator, Test Pilots incorporates realistic elements in its flight physics, making it accessible yet challenging for players who enjoy flight simulation.

=Community and popularity =
Test Pilots has garnered a dedicated following within the VRChat community, praised for its engaging gameplay and the thrill of flying. However, like many popular VRChat worlds, it is also subject to occasional issues with griefing and player misconduct, which the community addresses through moderation and reporting​​.

The world is regularly featured in VRChat-related content on platforms like YouTube, where players share their experiences and tips on flying in this virtual space. It’s also highlighted in various VR forums and websites as one of the best flight-related experiences available in VRChat​.

=Conclusion =
Test Pilots in VRChat offers a unique and exciting flight simulation experience that blends the social aspects of VRChat with the thrill of aerial combat and exploration. Whether you’re a seasoned pilot or new to flight simulators, Test Pilots provides a fun and immersive environment for all players. With its diverse aircraft, engaging environments, and active community, it remains a standout world within VRChat’s vast universe​.
=Trivia =
*The world includes various environments to fly in, such as a military base, an aircraft carrier, a city, an airport, and even an alien base, each providing different challenges and visual aesthetics.
*While not a full-fledged flight simulator, Test Pilots incorporates realistic flight mechanics that offer a satisfying challenge without being overly complex, striking a balance between accessibility and realism.
*The world features a wide array of aircraft, including fighter jets, helicopters, and UFOs. Each vehicle has unique controls and physics, catering to both casual players and those seeking more of a challenge.

=Community resources=
*[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kVcdEShalCY VRChat - Test Pilots] on ''YouTube.''
*[https://planetvrchat.net/archives/3598 Test Pilots] on ''Planetvrchat.''
*[https://vrlowdown.com/best-vr-flight-simulators/ 9 Best VR Flight Simulators] on ''Vrlowdown.''

[[Category:Worlds]]
[[Category:Game worlds]]
[[Category:PvP worlds]]
[[Category:Japanese]]
[[Category:Russian]]