<languages/>
{{Noticebox/Official}}
<translate><!--T:1-->
{{Stub|Not much information here! You can [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:How to Contribute|contribute]], by expanding and proofreading this article, in accordance with the [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]].}}
'''Avatar Dynamics''', is an [[Special:MyLanguage/Avatars|avatar]] feature, initially introduced to VRChat on April 21, 2022<ref>[https://hello.vrchat.com/blog/avatar-dynamics-live VRChat Blog: Avatar Dynamics Live]</ref>. is a set of features to add more interactions between avatars. Replacing older avatar components, and adding new options for avatars. This release also introduced a new permission system to let people set who can interact with these new features.

==PhysBones== <!--T:2-->

<!--T:3-->
''See also [[Special:MyLanguage/Physbones|Physbones]] for more detailed information.''

<!--T:4-->
Physbones allows for secondary motion and interact-able bones for avatars. Allowing users to grab, move, and manipulate avatar parts (e.g., hair, ears).

==Contacts== <!--T:5-->

<!--T:6-->
''See also [https://creators.vrchat.com/avatars/avatar-dynamics/contacts/ Contacts] for more detailed information.''

<!--T:7-->
Contacts are a system that allows avatars to detect collisions with itself or other avatars. These collisions can then be used to drive the animation controller and perform all sorts of fun effects.

==Permissions== <!--T:8-->

<!--T:9-->
The Avatar Dynamics permission system gives you complete control over who can interact with your avatar and how:

===Global Permissions=== <!--T:10-->

<!--T:11-->
Choose “Everyone,” “Friends,” or “Nobody” as a default setting for all users.

===Per-User Overrides=== <!--T:12-->

<!--T:13-->
Individually grant or deny avatar interaction permissions for specific users.

===Quick Toggle/Panic Mode=== <!--T:14-->

<!--T:15-->
Instantly pause all interactions (regardless of any other settings) with one button press in the Quick Menu.

==References== <!--T:16-->
</translate>

<references/>

[[Category:Needs images]]
[[Category:Features{{#translation:}}]]