{{Noticebox/Official}}
{{Stub|Not much info here! You can help [[VRCWiki:How to Contribute|contribute]] by expanding and proofreading this article, in accordance with the [[VRCWiki:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]].}}
{{Infobox/Official World
|name=Presentation Room
|image=Presentation_Roomthumb.webp
|developer=VRChat
|platform=PC
|link={{VRC link|https://vrchat.com/home/world/wrld_78373831-0109-4808-9b63-27382f4c6975|Presentation Room}}
|published=Originally: July 31, 2017
Reuploaded: February 18, 2020
}}

'''Presentation Room''' is a PC-only [[Worlds|world]] created by VRChat, originally uploaded<ref>[https://en.vrcw.net/world/detail/wrld_78373831-0109-4808-9b63-27382f4c6975 'Presentation Room'] on ''en.vrcw.net''; retrieved March 29, 2025.</ref> on July 31, 2017. The world is a spacious drawing studio, to use 3D drawing tools. Up to 64 users can be in an instance of Presentation Room at a time.

==Overview==
Presentation Room is a large interior room with a wooden floor, red walls, a stage with a reset button, and several white drawing boards spread out evenly on the walls. Drawing tools can be used by other VRChat users to write words, or draw pictures. These drawing tools consist of six erasers, and two sets of colored pens or markers.

Earlier adaptations of the Presentation Room originally had ten [[Stations|chairs]], but were later removed. There is a [[Portals|portal]] in the back left corner of the room, that leads to the [[VRChat Hub]] (2019).

==Drawing tools==
There are two sets of drawing tools, located on each side of the stage. Each set comes with three erasers, and eight colorful pens; adding to a total of six erasers, and sixteen markers. Users can draw, write, and erase with these tools. On top of the stage is a red button on a pedestal that removes all established drawings.

*Erasers
*White
*Black
*Red
*Orange
*Yellow
*Green
*Blue
*Purple

==See also==
* [[List of worlds created by VRChat]]
* [[:Category:List of worlds by VRChat]]

==References==
{{reflist}}

[[Category:Worlds]]
[[Category:List of worlds by VRChat]]