{{Noticebox/Official}}
{{Stub}}

{{Infobox/Feature
|name= Selfie Expression
|image=SelfieExpression Feature.png
|platforms= PC, Android
|branch_live_date = 5 Dec 2024
|branch_live_version = 2024.4.2 (Android); 2025.1.3 (PC)
|branch_live_releasenote = https://docs.vrchat.com/docs/vrchat-202442
https://docs.vrchat.com/docs/vrchat-202513
|branch_openbeta_date = 12 Mar 2025
|branch_openbeta_version = 2025.1.3 Open Beta (PC)
|branch_openbeta_releasenote = https://docs.vrchat.com/docs/vrchat-202513-openbeta
}}

'''Selfie Expression''' is a feature that allows users to utilize a camera for upper-body tracking on an avatar. This feature is available to all users on mobile Android, and desktop mode.

== Overview ==
Selfie Expression can track a user's facial expressions, head, and eye movement; in addition to arms, hands, and finger tracking on desktop. This system uses your camera, built-in [[Community:Terminology#Viseme|visemes]], allowing it to work with nearly all avatars that are [[VRChat SDK|configured]] with eye-look and visemes. Selfie Expression for mobile Android, was introduced on the 2024.4.2<ref>[https://docs.vrchat.com/docs/vrchat-202442#face-tracking-on-mobile 'VRChat 2024.4.2'] on ''docs.vrchat.com''; retrieved May 4, 2025.</ref><ref>[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xMoAacoDfjk 'Age Verification, Prints, Gift Drops and MORE | VRChat Patch Notes 2024.4.2'] posted by VRChat on ''YouTube''; retrieved May 4, 2025.</ref> release, on December 5, 2024. Selfie Expression on desktop, was introduced on the 2025.1.3<ref>[https://docs.vrchat.com/docs/vrchat-202513 'VRChat 2025.1.3'] on ''docs.vrchat.com''; retrieved May 4, 2025.</ref><ref>[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CHt6VsK9STk 'Desktop Face Tracking, Camera Drone and Dolly! - VRChat Release 2025.1.3'] posted by VRChat on ''YouTube''; retrieved May 4, 2025.</ref> release, on March 26, 2025.

== How to enable Selfie Expression ==
Selfie Expression requires the use of a camera and can be enabled in the [[Main Menu]] '''Settings''', under '''Tracking & IK'''. Click "Enable Selfie Expression" to turn it on.

===Requirements ===

==== PC ====
*Any webcam with support for a 4:3 ratio.
**Most built-in laptop cameras are supported.
====Android====

*Enable the user's front camera on their smartdevice
**App permissions for "Camera" must be allowed first, before using the feature

==Selfie Expression settings==
{| class="wikitable"
|+
!Setting
!Tooltip
!Variables
|-
|Enable Selfie Expression
|Selfie Expression uses your camera to animate your avatar! No one will see your real face. Image data is processed locally on your device, only used for animation, and never saved.
|Toggle
|-
|Auto-Adjust Selfie Expression Quality
|Automatically adjust Selfie Expression quality depending on current frame rate
|Toggle
|-
|Selfie Expression Quality Level
|Change Selfie Expression Quality level

*Off - Selfie Expression is disabled until frame rate improves
*Performance - Selfie Expression disables hand tracking and uses minimum camera resolution and framerate
*Balanced - Selfie Expression uses camera with medium resolution and framerate
* Best/High Quality: Quality - Selfie Expression uses camera with highest resolution and framerate
|Off, Performance, Balanced, High Quality, Best Quality
|-
|Selfie Expression Also Moves Hands
|While Selfie Expression is enabled, and the Quality Setting is set to 'Balanced' or above, allow moving hands via your webcam.
|Toggle 
|-
|Auto Recentering Speed 
|Adjusts how quickly your avatar will automatically recenter rotation (to compensate for camera offset)
|0-100, Recenter, Reset
|-
|Current Webcam Device
|Change your current webcam device. Make sure your webcam is not being used by other software
|Change Webcam Device
|}

=== Selfie Expression Quality Level ===
The following table, compares the camera resolution and frame rate, for the various "Selfie Expression Quality Level" settings, for Performance, Balanced, High Quality, and Best Quality settings:
{| class="wikitable"
!Quality level
!Resolution
!Frames
|-
|Performance
|177x144px
|5
|-
|Balanced
|320x240px
|15 
|-
|High Quality
|640x480px
|20 
|-
|Best Quality
|800x600px
|30
|}

=== Troubleshooting ===
*If an avatar's eyes are not tracking, it could likely be the 'eye-look' settings have not been properly set-up for the avatar in the VRChat SDK.
*On desktop, if hand tracking is not working, you may either need to enable it using the '''Selfie Expression Also Moves Hands''' setting, and turn the camera quality setting to Balanced, High Quality, or Best Quality.
*If your microphone's quality is unusual, your microphone may accidentally be set to your webcam. You can change your microphone's source in the '''Audio tab''' in the [[Quick Menu]].

== Privacy and performance ==
All camera data is processed locally, and image or tracking data is never sent to other users, or to VRChat's servers. Due to using camera resources, it may be heavy on some systems and devices. You can reduce lag from this feature, by adjusting the quality of Selfie Expression to Balanced, or Performance modes for a better result.

== Trivia ==

* Selfie Expression once required [[VRC+]] to be used on desktop, but was made free, with [https://docs.vrchat.com/docs/vrchat-202532p1 build 1696] on September 5, 2025.

==See also== 

*[[Finger Tracking]]
*[[Face Tracking]]
==References==

[[Category:Needs images{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:Features{{#translation:}}]]