Apparently, user profile pages are immune to the [[VRCWiki:Neutral point of view|Conflicts of interest]] and [[VRCWiki:Neutral point of view|Neutral point of view]] VRCWiki guidelines, as evidenced by the user profile pages of several maintainers' profiles ([https://wiki.vrchat.com/index.php?title=User:Usr_c272d4fe-f1f8-4d77-8008-cad6cb81d6cd&oldid=2041 example]). Additionally, exceptions are made for contrived and nonsensical inside jokes such as [[Rat|VRRat]] (a pitiful, forced meme created internally at VRChat; probably evidence that only a joke completely devoid of thought or reason can act as sufficient comic relief amidst such a stressful and disorganized work environment.)

With that being said, I plan to use this page to clearly document the most unabashed, vitriolic opinions I have against VRChat and problems with its content creation tools and processes. However, I will filter or remove content as necessary to stay within the bounds of the ever-changing rules this Wiki might have (because we all know VRChat is very professional and consistent, and totally not plagued with Silicon Valley startup culture or governed like a Minecraft server). Though the nature of this page may be polemic, it is meant to serve a positive, practical purpose: to aid in the discussion of VRChat's historic executive and design decisions (or lack thereof), and the positive or negative causes & effects of each.


[Subsections: history of advanced creator hostility, feature removal, quashing dissent]

DISCLAIMER: THIS IS ONLY A TEST! To better define limits of what is/isn't acceptable content/rules for the wiki, those limits must first be tested (Not that VRChat or its representatives have any interest in fair and well defined & enforced rules, LOL). Will this page even survive? Will new rules be drafted for user profile pages? Stay tuned!