{{Noticebox/Community}}
'''PJKT Fang''' (also written '''Projekt Fang''') is a multi-day winter convention in [[Special:MyLanguage/VRChat|VRChat]] organized by [[Community:PJKT|Projekt: Community]] (PJKT).<ref name="bsky-pjkt-fang-2026">[https://bsky.app/profile/vrchat.com "Winter time Blues got you down? Get excited for PJKT Fang! Lots of Events, Meetups, Panels and Live Music! Hope to see you there February 20th-23rd! #PJKTFang #VRChat"] on ''Bluesky'' (@vrchat.com). Dated February 17, 2026. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref> It sits alongside [[Community:PJKT_Fest|PJKT Fest]] on PJKT's seasonal calendar and uses the same booth-and-programming model: other VRChat communities gather in a shared event world for meetups, panels, live music, and staffed booths.

PJKT Fang is community-run; VRChat has promoted editions on [[wikipedia:Bluesky_(social_network)|Bluesky]].<ref name="bsky-pjkt-fang-2026"/>

==Format==

Fang follows a convention layout rather than a single stage show. Participating communities set up booths inside a dedicated event world, schedule sessions for attendees, and use the floor to recruit, demo worlds, or promote their own events.<ref name="fa-comops">[https://www.furaffinity.net/view/64030315/ "PJKT Fang 2026 - Comrades And Ops Games 2"] on ''Fur Affinity'' (ChevronTheWolf). Posted February 15, 2026. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref><ref name="lilithebowman-fang">[https://www.lilithebowman.com/blog/2026/02/ "PJKT Fang Booth Meet" and "PJKT FANG is Coming Soon!"] on ''Lilithe Bowman'' (blog). February 2026. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref> The program has included meetups, panels, and live music.<ref name="bsky-pjkt-fang-2026"/>

==Participation==

Attendance has required membership in the Projekt Community VRChat group ('''PJKT.3741'''). Event instances were set to Groups-Public or above, so any group member could join.<ref name="fa-comops"/>

==PJKT Fang 2026==

The 2026 edition ran from February 20 to 23.<ref name="bsky-pjkt-fang-2026"/>

Booth activities included:

* '''Comrades And Ops''' — a gaming session on February 22, 2026, at 5 pm EST, featuring the VRChat world ''Infected: Reborn'' by NoLife1942.<ref name="fa-comops"/>
* '''CozyCon Cafe VR''' — a booth promoting a separate September 2026 convention called Cozy Cafe.<ref name="lilithebowman-fang"/>

==References==

<references />