*'''Verification Requirements:''' Users must submit an ''unedited'' photo of their government ID for it to be accepted as well as complete a "liveliness check" involving a selfie to ensure the person validating is the same as the person who owns the ID<ref>Tupper (2024, December 2). ''Age Verification FAQ''. VRChat Forum. Retrieved December 9, 2024, from https://ask.vrchat.com/t/age-verification-faq/28458#p-58953-what-do-i-need-to-submit-to-verify-my-age-4</ref>.
*'''Optional:''' Age verification is not mandatory to use VRChat. However, to be able to access age-restricted instances and features a user must verify their age ''and'' be 18 or older<ref>Tupper (2024, December 2). ''Age Verification FAQ''. VRChat Forum. Retrieved December 9, 2024, from https://ask.vrchat.com/t/age-verification-faq/28458#p-58953-is-age-verification-mandatory-6</ref>.
*'''Data Handling:''' ID data is retained by Persona for the minimum amount of time it takes to verify the user's birthdate and to create a unique one-way [[wikipedia:Cryptographic_hash_function|cryptographic hash]] utilizing data from the user's provided ID. This hash is stored on VRChat's servers for that user's account and all ID data is deleted on Persona's end, the irreversible cryptographic hash and user's verified Date of Birth remain on VRChat's servers.<ref>https://youtu.be/lzG9IwmM7TI</ref>
**'''Note:''' Deleting verification data in VRChat will result in the user's account being unusable until they accept the Terms of Service and input their birthdate again. This will also result in verification status being removed from that account unless it is reverified.
*'''One ID Per Account:''' One ID cannot be used to verify multiple accounts. This restriction is intended to enhance trust, and encourage users to place more value in their account, discouraging malicious behavior<ref>Tupper (2024, December 2). ''Age Verification FAQ''. VRChat Forum. Retrieved December 9, 2024, from https://ask.vrchat.com/t/age-verification-faq/28458#p-58953-can-i-use-the-same-id-to-verify-multiple-accounts-8</ref>.
*'''18+ ≠ Sexually Explicit Content:''' 18+ Age verification or age-restricted instances do ''not'' waive the [[Special:MyLanguage/Terms of Service|Terms of Service]] or [[Special:MyLanguage/Community Guidelines|Community Guidelines]] policy on pornographic content.
**Refer to section 13.2 of the [https://hello.vrchat.com/legal Terms of Service]<ref>VRChat (2024, November 18). ''VRChat Terms of Service''. Retrieved December 9, 2024, from https://hello.vrchat.com/legal#:~:text=13.2.%20Prohibited%20Conduct</ref> as well as the [https://hello.vrchat.com/community-guidelines Community Guidelines]<ref>VRChat (2024, August 12). ''VRChat Community Guidelines''. Retrieved December 9, 2024, from https://hello.vrchat.com/community-guidelines</ref>.