{{Infobox/Event
|name=Flight Week
|image=
|organizer=VRChat
|start=September 12, 2025
|end=September 19, 2025
}}
{{Noticebox/Official}}


'''Flight Week''' was an aviation-themed [[Events|event]] on [[VRChat]] held from September 12 to September 19, 2025. It centered on a featured world row of aviation-themed content, including worlds commissioned for education on the platform. VRChat promoted a launch livestream with organizers at 2:00 p.m. PT on September 12, 2025.<ref name="bsky-live">[https://bsky.app/profile/vrchat.com/post/3lynxk4yatk2x "Flight Week is now LIVE in VRChat!"] posted by VRChat on ''[https://bsky.app/profile/vrchat.com Bluesky]''. Dated September 12, 2025. Retrieved April 8, 2026.</ref> The company announced the event on X.com the same day.<ref name="x-live">[https://x.com/VRChat/status/1966579547609899328 Flight Week announcement] posted by VRChat on ''X.com''. Dated September 12, 2025. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref>

''Skyward Flight Media'' called Flight Week the first official platform-wide aviation event on VRChat, arriving roughly five years after aircraft first appeared on the platform.<ref name="skyward-fw">[https://www.skywardfm.com/post/vrchat-aviation-vrc-flight-week-2025 "VRChat Aviation: VRC Flight Week 2025"] by Aaron Mendoza, ''Skyward Flight Media''. Published September 12, 2025. Retrieved April 8, 2026.</ref>

==Overview==

Flight Week ran as a platform-wide aviation feature on VRChat during September 12–19, 2025.<ref name="skyward-fw" /> A Twitch stream on September 12, 2025 included VRChat community and development staff and organizers from the educational worlds.<ref name="twitch-vod">[https://www.twitch.tv/videos/2564952455 Flight Week launch stream VOD] on ''Twitch''. Dated September 12, 2025. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref> The two public worlds named in coverage were '''{{VRC link|https://vrchat.com/home/world/wrld_a2d2ab94-c846-48a0-bb6a-c89da7a4b59b|Flight Week - Hangar}}''' and '''{{VRC link|https://vrchat.com/home/world/wrld_bbb8669f-5f58-4146-a6cd-b58ab3e6fdb0|Flight Week - Test Flight}}'''. Their educational focus came from collaboration among [https://www.negentropic.tech/ Negentropic], [https://www.boeing.com/ Boeing], and the Australian Government, including private variants for Australian high schools.<ref name="skyward-fw" /> Negentropic had previously worked on VRChat's [[Space Jam]] events.<ref name="skyward-fw" />

===Featured content===

The Flight Week featured world row included the two Negentropic educational worlds and a selection of existing community-created aviation worlds. The selection paired well-established flight worlds with lesser-known worlds from the international VRChat aviation community. An in-game Flight Week menu let players browse and join the featured worlds.<ref name="skyward-fw" />

Featured worlds offered experiences such as modern fighter jets, player-versus-player combat, gliders, air-to-air refueling, aircraft carrier operations, World War II warbirds, airliners, small private aircraft, transforming robot aircraft, flight simulation-level aircraft, player-versus-environment missions, and sci-fi aerial battles.<ref name="skyward-fw" />

===Educational worlds and AVISTA===

The AVISTA website (avista.org.au), operated by the Australian Remote Operations for Space and Earth (AROSE) and supported by Australia's Department of Defence School Pathways Program, describes two VRChat-based educational experiences that match the Flight Week worlds.<ref name="avista-vr">[https://avista.org.au/vr-experience/ "AVISTA VR Experience"] at ''avista.org.au''. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref> '''Flight Test Challenge''' is a simulation in which participants complete a Production Flight Acceptance Test (PFAT) from a pilot's perspective, covering in-flight checks, communication protocols, and control tests. '''Hangar Maintenance Mission''' is a post-flight inspection experience in which users perform maintenance checks as ground crew and examine the systems that keep aircraft flight-ready.

The AVISTA site directs technical assistance inquiries to the Negentropic team.<ref name="avista-vr" /> AVISTA is a free, curriculum-linked initiative for students in Years 7–12, aimed at STEM and defence industry career awareness. Its partners include Fizzics Education, Gilmour Space Technologies, Nova Systems, and the University of Western Australia Defence and Security Institute, among others.<ref name="avista-main">[https://avista.org.au/ "AVISTA — Inspiring the Next Generation of STEM Innovators"] at ''avista.org.au''. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref>

===Community response===

Within about 24 hours of launch, '''{{VRC link|https://vrchat.com/home/world/wrld_4f0a2358-2511-4f57-8f33-5f710f801001|Skyward Night Flight}}''' — a non-combat general aviation world by Santiago "Cubeboy" Cuberos that Flight Week featured — gained thousands of visits and hundreds of new favorite world listings.<ref name="skyward-fw" /> Exact figures for all featured worlds were hard to track because baseline visit counts before the event had not been recorded.<ref name="skyward-fw" />

Skyward Night Flight had originally been released on March 29, 2025 and includes a tropical island setting with a glider, an amphibious aircraft, and a dynamic wind zone system.<ref name="skyward-snf">[https://www.skywardfm.com/post/vrchat-aviation-world-release-skyward-night-flight "VRChat Aviation World Release: Skyward Night Flight"] by Santiago "Cubeboy" Cuberos, ''Skyward Flight Media''. Published March 29, 2025. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref>

Community activity around the event used the hashtag #VRCAviation.<ref name="skyward-fw" />

==Later announcements==

VRChat used Bluesky to promote a related airshow on Saturday, September 27, 2025, at 9:00 p.m. CST. It also announced a future '''VRChat Air Festival''' planned for September 2026.<ref>Scheduling notes for the September 27, 2025 airshow (including reminders posted September 11 and 24, 2025) and the September 2026 VRChat Air Festival appear in VRChat posts on ''[https://bsky.app/profile/vrchat.com Bluesky]''; retrieved April 8, 2026.</ref>

==See also==

* [[Events]]
* [[Space Jam]]

==References==

<references />

==Official resources==

* [https://bsky.app/profile/vrchat.com VRChat on Bluesky]
* [https://bsky.app/profile/vrchat.com/post/3lynxk4yatk2x Flight Week launch announcement on Bluesky] (September 12, 2025)
* [https://x.com/VRChat/status/1966579547609899328 Flight Week announcement on X.com] (September 12, 2025)
* [https://www.twitch.tv/videos/2564952455 Flight Week launch stream on Twitch] (September 12, 2025)
* {{VRC link|https://vrchat.com/home/world/wrld_a2d2ab94-c846-48a0-bb6a-c89da7a4b59b|Flight Week - Hangar}} on VRChat
* {{VRC link|https://vrchat.com/home/world/wrld_bbb8669f-5f58-4146-a6cd-b58ab3e6fdb0|Flight Week - Test Flight}} on VRChat
* {{VRC link|https://vrchat.com/home/world/wrld_4f0a2358-2511-4f57-8f33-5f710f801001|Skyward Night Flight}} on VRChat
* [https://avista.org.au/vr-experience/ AVISTA VR Experience] at ''avista.org.au''

==Navigation==

{{Navbox/Events}}
[[Category:Events{{#translation:}}]]