{{Noticebox/Official}}
'''VRChat anniversaries''' mark the annual observance of [[Special:MyLanguage/VRChat|VRChat]]'s initial release on January 16, 2014, when the application first launched as a Windows program for the Oculus Rift DK1.<ref name="5yr-medium">[https://medium.com/vrchat/celebrating-5-years-of-vrchat-ffa0e8116929 Celebrating 5 Years of VRChat] by VRChat on ''Medium''. January 15, 2019. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref><ref name="wp-vrchat">[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VRChat VRChat] on ''Wikipedia''. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref> Celebrations have varied in scale over the years, from small community gatherings in VRChat's earliest days to themed [[Special:MyLanguage/VRChat Home|VRChat Home]] updates, social media campaigns, and official livestreams.

Since at least the tenth anniversary in 2024, annual celebrations have included decorations in VRChat Home, such as commemorative cakes and historical displays, alongside community hashtag campaigns on social media.<ref name="vr-lifemag-10th">[https://vr-lifemagazine.com/vrchat-10th-aniv/ VRChat 10周年] on ''Virtual Life Magazine''. January 2024. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref><ref name="vr-lifemag-11th">[https://vr-lifemagazine.com/vrchat-11th-aniv/ VRChatは11周年] on ''Virtual Life Magazine''. January 2025. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref><ref name="vrc-anniv-2026">[https://x.com/VRChat/status/2012276455065948625 Anniversary post] by VRChat on ''[https://x.com/VRChat X]''. January 16, 2026. Retrieved April 8, 2026.</ref>

== Celebrations ==

=== 1st anniversary (2015) ===
For VRChat's first anniversary on January 16, 2015, approximately 40 users gathered in The Art Gallery, one of VRChat's early community worlds.<ref name="5yr-medium"/>

=== 5th anniversary (2019) ===
For the fifth anniversary, an event was held in the original VRChat Cafe world, featuring the classic "Karl" avatar in T-pose and videos highlighting VRChat's early history. The world opened on January 15, 2019, with a community party on January 19 at 7:00 p.m. PST.<ref name="5yr-medium"/>

=== 7th anniversary (2021) ===
On January 16, 2021, VRChat posted on Twitter: "Believe it or not, it's been 7 years since the first public release of VRChat," and asked the community to share photos from their earliest memories on the platform. The post included a photo of an early in-world weekly meetup.<ref name="vrc-7yr-tweet">[https://x.com/VRChat/status/1350271592526438400 Anniversary tweet] by VRChat on ''[https://x.com/VRChat X]''. January 16, 2021. Retrieved April 10, 2026.</ref><ref name="vr-lifemag-7th">[https://vr-lifemagazine.com/vrchat7yearago/ VRChatが7周年！みんなの思い出送ってね！] on ''Virtual Life Magazine''. January 2021. Retrieved April 10, 2026.</ref>

=== 10th anniversary (2024) ===
For the tenth anniversary on January 16, 2024, VRChat Home received a commemorative cake and a recreation of the 2017-era loading screen with the background music "Partially Offline" by Andrea Baroni. The original [[Special:MyLanguage/Worlds|VRChat Cafe]] world was restored and re-uploaded for the occasion.<ref name="vr-lifemag-10th"/><ref name="worlds-cafe">[https://vrchat.com/home/world/wrld_329485fe-50a5-4ef8-bb47-194d23f15973 VRChat Cafe] on ''VRChat''. January 16, 2024. Retrieved April 10, 2026.</ref> VRChat also shared "10 fun facts about VRChat" on X, including the origins of [[Special:MyLanguage/VRRat|VRRat]].<ref name="vrc-10yr-facts">[https://x.com/VRChat/status/1747389659913552340 "Have 10 fun facts about #VRChat"] by VRChat on ''[https://x.com/VRChat X]''. January 2024. Retrieved April 10, 2026.</ref>

=== 11th anniversary (2025) ===
For the eleventh anniversary in January 2025, VRChat Home was decorated with an anniversary cake and a snowman-building feature was active. The community was invited to share posts using the hashtag <nowiki>#VRC11</nowiki>. During the preceding [[Special:MyLanguage/New Years Eve 2025|New Year's Eve event]], VRChat reached 136,567 simultaneous users.<ref name="vr-lifemag-11th"/>

=== 12th anniversary (2026) ===
VRChat's twelfth anniversary was observed on January 16, 2026.<ref name="vrc-anniv-2026"/> VRChat invited players to share memories using the hashtag <nowiki>#VRC12Years</nowiki> and said it would repost selected submissions. An updated VRChat Home included historical photos and a celebratory cake.<ref name="vrc-anniv-2026"/>

On the same day, VRChat announced a new Official VRChat Twitch Streams Group for watching streams together.<ref name="bsky-jan2026">Posts dated January 16 and January 23, 2026 on [https://bsky.app/profile/vrchat.com @vrchat.com] on ''Bluesky''. Retrieved April 8, 2026.</ref> On January 23, 2026, VRChat held a developer data stream with DataDazed at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time, covering [[Special:MyLanguage/New Years Eve 2026|New Year's Eve 2026]] statistics.<ref name="bsky-jan2026"/> During that New Year's Eve celebration, VRChat had set a new concurrent user record of 148,886 during the Central Time Zone ball drop, surpassing the typical weekend peak of approximately 120,000–125,000 concurrent users.<ref name="roadtovr-nye">[https://www.roadtovr.com/vrchat-new-record-new-years-eve-2025-2026/ 'VRChat' Breaks Concurrent User Record on New Year's Eve] on ''Road to VR''. January 2026. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref>

== See also ==
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Events|Events]]
* [[Special:MyLanguage/VRChat New Years Eve|VRChat New Years Eve]]
* [[Special:MyLanguage/VRChat Home|VRChat Home]]
* [[Special:MyLanguage/VRChat|VRChat]]

== Official resources ==
* [https://medium.com/vrchat/celebrating-5-years-of-vrchat-ffa0e8116929 Celebrating 5 Years of VRChat] on ''Medium''
* [https://x.com/VRChat/status/1350271592526438400 VRChat 7th anniversary tweet (January 16, 2021)] on ''[https://x.com/VRChat X]''
* [https://x.com/VRChat/status/1747389659913552340 10 fun facts about VRChat (January 2024)] on ''[https://x.com/VRChat X]''
* [https://x.com/VRChat/status/2012276455065948625 VRChat 12th anniversary post (January 16, 2026)] on ''[https://x.com/VRChat X]''
* [https://bsky.app/profile/vrchat.com VRChat (@vrchat.com)] on ''Bluesky''

== References ==
<references />