{{Noticebox/Community}}
{{Infobox/World
|name=Prismic's Avatar Search
|image=PrismicsAvatarSearchThumbnail.png
|author=Prismic247
|capacity=80 (20)
|platforms=PC, Android, iOS
|tags=avatar, search, find, world, avatars
|languages=English, Spanish, French, German, Italian, Polish, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Russian, Chinese, Ukrainian
|id=wrld_57514404-7f4e-4aee-a50a-57f55d3084bf
|labs=February 28, 2023
|published=February 28, 2023
}}
'''Prismic's Avatar Search''' is a cross-platform [[:Category:Avatar worlds|avatar world]] published by Prismic247 in early 2023. In this world, users can search through an index of over a million [[Special:MyLanguage/Avatars|avatars]], as well as other gimmicks centred around avatars.

==Overview==
Prismic's Avatar Search places users into a box with grid textures for its floor and walls. It features a defaulted on [[Special:MyLanguage/Mirrors|mirror]], an avatar height indicator to the left and avatar search features to the right of spawn. Users can customize world visuals and players settings, as well as room options. 

==Features==
===Avatar search===
Towards the right of spawn, features the avatar search panel. Users have the ability to search for avatars by name, author and filter avatars by their [[Special:MyLanguage/Platforms|platform]], performance and whether they have [[Special:MyLanguage/Impostors|impostors]]. 

The avatar search works by collecting and indexing lists of known public avatars. Private avatars are not shown, and if avatar creators would like to get their avatars added or removed, simply follow the instructions shown in the world; contacting the author on Discord, or adding <code>[private]</code> to an avatar's description. 

After searching for an avatar, avatar pedestals will be displayed on the wall related to the result of the user's search. Users can also load any avatar via avatar ID. 

====Search filtering and functions====
Before searching for an avatar, users can filter their search to only include certain parameters. These parameters include:
{| class="wikitable"
!Parameter name
!Values
|-
|Name
| -Name ''(Input field)''
''-[Name Search Method] (Choose one)''<br>
Match Phrase, Exact Phrase, Starts With Phrase, Ends With Phrase, Match All Words<br>
-Include Description ''(Toggle)''
|-
|Author
| -Author name ''(Input field)''
''-[Name Search Method] (Choose one)''<br>
Match Phrase, Exact Phrase, Starts With Phrase, Ends With Phrase
|-
|Platform Compatiblity
| -PC, Android, iOS ''(Choose multiple)''
-Include Impostors ''(Toggle)''
|-
|Minimum Performance
|''-[PC] (Choose one)''Excellent, Good, Medium, Poor, Very Poor
''-[Android] (Choose one)''<br>
Excellent, Good, Medium, Poor, Very Poor<br>
''-[iOS] (Choose one)''<br>
Excellent, Good, Medium, Poor, Very Poor
|-
|Result Limit Per Page
|15 (Best), 45 (Good), 75 (Default), 150 (Bad)
|-
|Search Speed
|Slow (Best), Balanced (Default), Fast (Worst)
|}
There are also special search functions users can choose:

*Browse Favorites
*Browse Recently Updated
*Browse Random Avatars
*Random From Current Search

Or simply, select the "Random Avatar" button to switch into a randomly selected avatar that's within the world's avatar database.

====Avatar favorites====
On the avatar pedestal of a searched avatar, users can click the star icon to favorite that avatar. These avatar favorites are only saved and viewable within the world, and users can save up to 500 avatars.

===Avatar roulette===
The Avatar Roulette feature is an opt-in gimmick which allows any user within the zone next to the mirror to "roulette" the avatar they're wearing. When a user clicks the "Avatar Roulette" button, every user's avatar within the zone will be randomly changed into an avatar that's within the world's avatar database.

===Portals===
Choosing the "Portals" tab on the settings panel will spawn many [[Special:MyLanguage/Portals|portals]] against the walls, in which users can go visit. These portals are separated by category:

*My Worlds: Worlds made by Prismic247; the author of the world.
*Avatar Worlds
*Game Worlds
*Variety Worlds

Users can also load any world on a portal via world ID.

== Achievements ==
As of the 100 million users update, achievements have been added. There are currently a total of 60 achievements to earn.
<!--TBD means to be discovered, it means I havent seen it in game yet. Note by: TheSoulClock (2/28/25)-->
<!--Speculated means I think thats what the achievement is, based off educated guess. Note by: TheSoulClock (2/28/25)-->

===Total visits===
* Newcomer: Visit the world for the first time.
* Regular Attendee: Visit the world 30 times.
* Loyalty Card: Visit the world 100 times.
* Frequent Flyer: Visit the world 365 times.
* Addict: Visit the world 1000 times.
===Visit Streak===
*Repeat: Visit the world everyday for 3 days in a row.
*Rhythm: Visit the world everyday for 7 days in a row.
* Rhyme: Visit the world everyday for 30 days in a row.
* Cadence: Visit the world everyday for 90 days in a row.
* [TBD]
===Total time===
* One Hour: Spend 1 hour in the world.
* One Day: Spend 1 day in the world.
* One Week: Spend 1 week in the world.
* One Month: [speculated] Spend 1 month in the world.
* One Year: [speculated] Spend 1 year in the world.
===Session Time===
* Intern: Spend 1 hour in a session.
* Part-time: Spend 4 hours in a session.
* Full-time: Spend 8 hours in a session.
* Day-shift: Spend 12 hours in a session.
* Overtime: Spend 24 hours in a session.
===Player counts===
* Overcrowded: Be in an instance with more than 16 players.
* [TBD]
* Limits Exceeded: Be in an instance with more than 80 players.
===Distance===
* 1km: Move a total of 1 kilometer.
* 5km: Move a total of 5 kilometers.
* 10km: Move a total of 10 kilometers.
* 50km: Move a total of 50 kilometers.
* 100km: Move a total of 100 kilometers.
===Jumping===
* Bouncy: Jump 100 times.
* Skippy: Jump 500 times.
* Hopscotch: Jump 1,000 times.
* Jump-Rope: Jump 5,000 times.
* Bunny Hopper: Jump 10,000 times.
===Special People===
* Donor Detector: Be in an instance with a donor.
* Supporter Spectator: Be in an instance with a supporter.
* Your Honor: Be in an instance with a Honored user.
* VIP Adjacent: Be in an instance with a VIP user. 
* No One Will Believe You: Be in an instance with Prismic247.
=== Supporter ===
* Thank You!: Become a Supporter I.
* Thank You!!: Become a Supporter II.
* Thank You!!!: Become a Supporter III.
=== Gifts ===
* It Is A Gift: Drop a gift for other players.
* Generous: Drop 5 gifts for other players.
* [TBD]
* [TBD]
* [TBD]
===Avatar Changes===
* Hundred Faces: Change avatars 100 times.
* Thousand Faces: Change avatars 1,000 times.
* Ten Thousand Faces: Change avatars 10,000 times.
* Hundred Thousand Faces: Change avatars 100,000 times.
* [TBD]
===Platform===
* Dual Platform: Visit the world on two different platforms.
* Multi-platform: Visit the world on three or more different platforms.
===Challenge===
* Escapist: Escape the walls and fall out of the world.
===Avatar===
*Imposter: Wear Prismic247's avatar (either randomly or from pedestal).
===Random===
*[PC] One in a Million: Randomly roll an avatar twice in a row.
*[PC] One in a Trillion: Randomly roll an avatar thrice in a row.
===Unobtainable=== 
* Creator: Be Prismic247.

==Trivia==
*As of December 28, 2024, it is currently the most visited user-generated world, surpassing the previous record holder; [[Special:MyLanguage/Community:The Black Cat|The Black Cat]].<ref>[https://x.com/Prismic247/status/1873173660175044802 Most visited community world milestone post; @Prismic247 on X]</ref>
*It is currently the world with the most amount of favorites.

==References==
<references />
[[Category:Avatar worlds]]