{{Noticebox/Official}}{{Noticebox/Stub}}
The '''Hype Train''' is a community gifting feature in [[Special:MyLanguage/VRChat|VRChat]] in which users in an instance collectively send [[Special:MyLanguage/VRC+|VRC+]] gift drops within a time limit to reach a shared goal and unlock a reward.

==Overview==
The Hype Train was first introduced as a limited-time feature during the [[Special:MyLanguage/Pride Month 2026|Pride Month 2026]] event. A Hype Train starts when a user sends gift drops twice within the timer window, and can be started in any world and in any instance. Each gift drop that is sent resets the timer, and the Hype Train ends if the timer runs out before the goal is reached.

When a Hype Train is completed, users who are in the instance receive a reward. During Pride Month 2026, completing a Hype Train rewarded the "Extravagant Pride Fan" item.<ref name="pride2026">[https://ask.vrchat.com/t/vrchat-pride-campaign-2026-gift-vrc-and-earn-in-game-rewards "VRChat Pride Campaign 2026: Gift VRC+ and Earn In-Game Rewards!"] on ''[[ask.vrchat.com]]''. Dated June 1, 2026. Retrieved June 18, 2026.</ref> The number of gift drops required to complete a Hype Train was initially set to 100 when the feature launched, and was reduced to 50 a couple days later.<ref name="hypecount">Community observations posted in [https://ask.vrchat.com/t/developer-update-11-june-2026/48551 "Developer Update - 11 June 2026"] on ''[[ask.vrchat.com]]''. Retrieved June 19, 2026.</ref>

==Timer==
The Hype Train timer was originally set to 5 minutes. On June 11, 2026, VRChat announced that, based on community feedback, the timeout had been changed from 5 minutes to 10 minutes. VRChat stated that the longer timeout should also help with some platforms taking longer than others to complete a purchase.<ref name="devupdate11june2026">[https://ask.vrchat.com/t/developer-update-11-june-2026/48551 "Developer Update - 11 June 2026"] on ''[[ask.vrchat.com]]''. Dated June 11, 2026. Retrieved June 18, 2026.</ref>

==See also==
* [[Special:MyLanguage/VRC+|VRC+]]
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Pride Month 2026|Pride Month 2026]]

==References==
<references />