{{Noticebox/Community}}{{Infobox/World
|name=Spook Em Up
|image=Spook_Em_Up.webp
|author=Crazium
|capacity= 40 (20)
|platforms=PC, Android
|tags=death_run, spookality, halloween, game, spooky
|id=wrld_d5658267-c965-4dbf-b58f-6f50104e9f24
|labs=October 15, 2024
|published=October 15, 2024
}}

  

{{Quote| A DeathRun inspired game with randomized room layouts every roundǃ Avoid the Spirit's traps and escape the haunted mansion with your soul intactǃ Submitted for Spookality 2024‚ 2＋ Players Required to play․}}


'''Spook Em Up''' is a cross-compatible player-versus-player horror [[Special:MyLanguage/:Category:Game worlds|game world]], created by ''Crazium'' in 2024 for spookality. Up to 40 players can play at a time, but a minimum of two players must be present to begin. at the start of a round you will be assigned either '''Spirit(s)''' or '''Lost soul(s)'''. Lost souls must traverse randomly generated rooms while avoiding traps activated by the spirits while the spirits try to kill all the lost souls before they can escape. 
==Game modifiers== 

The instance master can optionally adjust the balance of the game by adjusting the manual settings. 

* '''Room generation count''' - the amount of rooms Lost souls have to survive to escape (minimum 1, maximum 20). 
* '''Spirit Count''' - The amount of players randomly selected to be spirits (minimum 1, maximum 3). 
* '''Allow Duplicate Rooms''' - Allows the same room to spawn multiple times per game sometimes in a row. 

==Roles==
===Spirits===
The Spirits goal is to prevent as many Lost Souls from escaping as possible by killing them with the traps in each room, each trap can only be activated once, The spirits win if they kill 80% of the lost souls before they can escape.
===Lost Souls===
The Lost Souls goal is to reach the end of the haunted mansion by going through all the rooms while avoiding traps and environmental hazards you can sneak past or try to trick the spirits into using traps without killing you. 

==Crowns==
Crowns are earned when you win a round or unlock an achievement. crowns can be spent at the gumball machines to unlock a random collectable from either the Winter or Classic collection. each collection has 10 trophies and 20 puzzle pieces.  

==Rooms== 

There are 26 different rooms that can be generated split into 3 collections, Some rooms have multiple traps but each trap can only be triggered once per room. 
<center>
{| class="wikitable mw-collapsible mw-collapsed sortable"
|+Rooms
! Room name !! Traps !! Collection
|-
| Acid Pit || 1 || Original
|-
| Cauldrons || 2 || Original
|-
| Furnace Room || 1 || Original
|-
| Ghost Hallway || 1 || Original
|-
| Kitchen || 1 || Original
|-
| Spike Hallway || 1 || Original
|-
| Spike Pit || 1 || Original
|-
| Spiral Staircase || 1 || Original
|-
| Stairs Down || 1 || Original
|-
| Stairs Up || 1 || Original
|-
| Fan Lift || 1 || Winter
|-
| Boulder Room || 1 || Winter
|-
| Fan Drop || 1 || Winter
|-
| Figure Skating || 1 || Winter
|-
| Fire Pillars || 1 || Winter
|-
| Knight Hallway || 1 || Winter
|-
| Sign Posts || 1 || Winter
|-
| Symbol Block Room 1 || 1 || Winter
|-
| Symbol Block Room 2 || 3 || Winter
|-
| Tightrope || 1 || Winter
|-
| Trains || 2 || Winter
|-
| TV Room || 1 || Winter
|-
| Twisted Room || 1 || Special
|-
| Cheese Room || 1 || Special
|-
| Mousetraps || 2 || Special
|-
| Cake Room || 1 || Special
|}
 
</center>
==Achievements==
Spook Em Up! has 16 achievements that can be unlocked by completing objectives. Achievements are saved using persistence. <center>

{| class="wikitable mw-collapsible mw-collapsed"
|+achievements 
|-
|Spook Em Up! ||play a round of Spook Em Up!.
|-
|Wake Up Call!||Survive the ghost that lurks in the walls...
|-
|Playing Both Sides|| Win a round as Lost Soul or Spirit then win the next round as the opposite side.
|-
| So close...|| Die in the final room.
|-
|Déjà Boo
|Encounter 5 of the same room in a single round.
|-
|Sole Survivor||Be the only Survivor in a 20 room round.
|-
|Broken Legs||Survive a 10+ room round without jumping.
|-
|Full House||Escape a 20 room round with 3 Active spirits.
|-
|Against the odds||As a lone spirit, kill all lost souls in a round with 15+ lost souls present.
|-
|Speedrunner||Escape a 20 room round in under 3 minutes.
|-
|Mass Murder||kill 10 people with a single trap.
|-
|Free Passage For All?||Kill every lost soul in a round without setting off any traps.
|-
|YeeHaw!
|Encounter a cowboy.
|-
|Percher ||Perch atop the chandelier in the lobby for a few seconds.
|-
|Infection||Encounter A user with this achivement
|}
</center>


==Community resources==
*[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=05YbSu_LPO8 "Spook Em Up Trailer - VRChat Spookality 2024"] trailer on ''YouTube''
*[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kNtA_By3B8s  Spook Em Up OST - Runner ] on ''YouTube''
*[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WxopzH99aU4 Spook Em Up OST - Runner (Release Ver)] on ''YouTube''
*[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xEZ5wJZbGbY  Spook Em Up OST - Lobby Theme] on ''YouTube''
*[https://vrchat.com/home/world/wrld%208e556cbd-62c9-4ff0-8552-de668598a5d5/info Spook Em Up Classic] on ''VRChat''


[[Category:Game worlds{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:PvP worlds{{#translation:}}]]
s