{{Noticebox/Community}}
{{Stub|Please expand headings, and proofread according to the [[VRCWiki:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]].}}
{{Infobox/World
|name=Virtual Maid Cafe
|image=VirtualMaidCafe_Thumbnail.png
|author=Hoshou Neko
|platforms=PC
|tags=roleplay, restaurant, food, cafe, drinks
|id=wrld_323e1d92-b0fc-485b-b394-2d8e05b6565b
|labs=
|published=Jan 11 2022
}}
'''Virtual Maid Cafe''' is a restaurant [[Special:MyLanguage/Worlds|world]] dedicated to welcoming guests within a Japanese style Maid Cafe.
Filled with gimmicks, drinks, food and games, it will immerse the player in a cozy ambiance perfect for roleplay sessions. 

== Community ==

The world is associated with the community of the same name.
It is a roleplay community welcoming the guests and playing as an actual maid cafe.

Regular events are hosted, from roleplay sessions, to more classic hangout events.
The events can be themed depending of the time period, like with summer beach events or Halloween costumes.

The [[VRChat]] group is [https://vrc.group/MAID.7488 MAID.7488]

== Structure ==

The world welcomes you with a hallway with posters of the staff updated with our various members.

The player then reaches the elevator, to be used with a press of a button to get them to the cafe hallway.

The cafe hallway is a corridor where all the maids are welcoming the guests before them being placed in the cafe.

The cafe itself is built with two floors, one with multiple tables and small booths, another one with more tables and a bar.
There are also some bathrooms for convenience and a kitchen to prepare the meals.

== Gimmicks ==

The worlds provides multiple gimmicks to increase immersion.

You have some food and drink items that can be picked by players and be used for roleplay purposes.
They interact with avatar contacts, for a more natural way to interact.

A menu is also provided to guests so they can request for specific items.

The world itself has a weather system allowing for multiple ambiances to run during events.

Some games are also available in the world for fun interaction, like a pool table or a fishing game.

You can also use some world accessories like the cat tree or the bathrooms to roleplay situations.

[[Category:Roleplay]]
[[Category:Stubs]]