== Additional section of guidelines to handle additional sections or moderation acts ==

I am quoting from @Tupper directly from another [[Community talk:Tropical Island Villa#c-Usr 5cd9007b-1802-45fe-92e2-0b6617639344-20250818185200-Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509-20250808045300|talk page]] about this topic/discussion

------
"I want to step in here with a suggestion. To make things clearer and fairer for contributors, I have proposed a 1-week "to be deleted" period when a page is flagged. During that time, the notice will include a reason so the page creator (or anyone else) can update it and resolve the issue. If no action is taken in that timeframe, the deletion will proceed.  
------
This should help avoid misunderstandings and ensure contributors feel they have a chance to fix things while still keeping the wiki organized and useful. Tupper - VRC Team 18:52, 18 August 2025 (UTC)"

I Do agree with the new policy, I would personally suggest 10 days rather then 7 days as I'm not aware of any downsides outside of byte data consumption (please let me know otherwise).
------
I would also like more clarity on what can/is known as an 'empty' page, What are the baseline essentionals, I would suggest infobox, atleast 2 pictures involving the world, a general perspective or knowlable "about" of the page.

Lets take Battle Discs for example, Its a great simple entry, it shows what the goal of the world is, how it works and what you can do all in a compact 3-4 line sentance.
------
Let us please expand on this as much as possable before coming to a communial agreement
(I will be creating additional talk pages for rules that new reviewing and will require additional feedback) [[User:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509]] ([[User talk:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|talk]]) 20:29, 18 August 2025 (UTC)

== Implementation rule of Colours on user signatures ==

I also request new rule implementation on Signatures, Currently any user can set whatever they like (which I don't hold anything agaisnt that) But I do hold color modification of the username display as a Major negative.
-----
Lets look the (my) known examples, Myself I have a red username which indicates I don't have a page, A user like @[[User:Hackebein|hackebein]] for example has a blue name, indicating they have a page, @[[User:Trixxedheart|trixxedheart]] has a Purple name, On my first experience seeing this I instantly thought they were a mod (this was before reviewing any pages about Wiki maintainer/team members).

I've never seen this type of colored name, I support the usage of siginitures, but Not color modifiations to the name as it can potetionally mislead peoples thoughts on who/what that users role is without reviewing the team members themselfs. [[User:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509]] ([[User talk:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|talk]]) 20:31, 18 August 2025 (UTC)