{{Noticebox/Official}}
{{Quote|''"A flip-style lighter, for pyrotechnical ignition... or anything else you could use a flame for. Interacts with flame-sensitive Contacts. Light 'em up."''}}
{{InventoryContentDisplay|name=Gold-plated Lighter
|image=ListingImage Gold-plated Lighter.png
|seller=VRChat
|type=Item
|price=700
|price_vrcplus=630
|availabilityDate=Dec 29, 2025 - Feb 5, 2026
|description=A flip-style lighter, for pyrotechnical ignition… or anything else you could use a flame for. Interacts with flame-sensitive Contacts.

Light ‘em up.
|productID=prod_c1c04228-db83-49c4-84d2-d2bdc7122da2
}}
'''Gold-plated Lighter''' is a limited-time [[Special:MyLanguage/Items|item]], sold in the [[Special:MyLanguage/Shop|Shop]] on the [[Special:MyLanguage/List of Shop listings|New Year's]] shelf between December 29, 2025 to February 5, 2026. The item was announced<ref>[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gaAd5Trx_7U "VRChat NYE VRC+ Content Drop and Shop Update!"] posted to ''[https://www.youtube.com/@VRChat YouTube]'' on December 29, 2025.</ref> on the same day as its listing.

== Overview ==
The lighter can be purchased in the Shop for 700 VRChat Credits, and 630 credits for [[Special:MyLanguage/VRC+|VRC+]] subscribers. This item is also included with the "NYE Celebratory Bundle" for 3,000 [[SpeciaL:MyLanguage/VRChat Credits|VRChat Credits]], and 2,700 for VRC+ subscribers. 

The Gold-plated Lighter is a portable [[Wikipedia:Zippo|Zippo]] flip lighter, with a golden metallic shell. Clicking the mouse, clicking the trigger button, or swinging your arm while holding the item, will open the lid, and produce a flame. Letting go of the mouse or trigger button will close the lid. You can also close the lid by flicking the lighter shut, swinging it closed, or by dropping the lighter.

==Interactions==
The Gold-plated lighter can interact with other items, such as:
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Blazing Sparkler|Blazing Sparkler]]: Lights up the sparkler, producing sparks from the stick
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Roman Candle|Roman Candle]]: Activates the Roman Candle, setting off small bursts of fireworks
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Fiery Sky Fireworks Show|Fiery Sky Fireworks Show]]: Ignites the fuse, and launches fireworks from the box
* [[Special:MyLanguage/2026 Glasses on a Stick|2026 Glasses on a Stick]]: Causes the glasses the glimmer
* Compatible [[Special:MyLanguage/Avatar Dynamics|avatar contacts]]

==See also==
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Items|Items]]
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Shop|Shop]]
* [[Wikipedia:Zippo]]

==References==
<references />
==Navigation==
{{Template:Navbox/Inventory}}
{{Template:Economy-navbox}}
[[Category:Items]]
[[Category:Inventory]]
[[Category:Needs images]]