{{Noticebox/Community}}
{{Noticebox/wip|More info is needed on the events that happen in this world}}
{{Infobox/World
|name= This world will be deleted in 24 Hours․
|image= World-This-world-will-be-deleted-in-24-Hours.png
|author= [https://vrchat.com/home/user/usr_aa7c5388-6124-487a-a620-bd8d5f8beedc Crazium]
|developers= [https://vrchat.com/home/user/usr_aa7c5388-6124-487a-a620-bd8d5f8beedc Crazium], [https://vrchat.com/home/user/usr_236c11f6-0ef4-4468-9cf5-8ad6a1afec21 HOBaRT], [https://vrchat.com/home/user/usr_b17be97c-c1cd-444c-9456-9d05bfd9353d Twisted]
|capacity= 80 (32)
|platforms= PC, Android, iOS
|tags= experiment, time, explore, weallgooneday
|languages= English
|id= wrld_c94696c8-ee0b-4a18-bd05-99e74a7c55da
|labs=Feb 04 2023
|published=Feb 05 2023
}}

{{Quote|With each passing hour this worlds ticks towards its death․ Will you press the button and reset the timer? Or explore each hour as the world draws closer to its demise? Either way․․․ We All Go One Day․}}

'''This world will be deleted in 24 Hours''' is a cross-platform world featuring a screen with a timer that counts down from 24 hours, and a small red button connected to it. As time passes the world slowly deteriorates, and if the countdown reaches zero the world is deleted. However, by pressing the button the timer is reset, and the world is given another 24 hours of life. The state of the world is synchronized across all instances of VRChat, including when it is reset by the button.

== Overview ==
The world set in a forest of dead trees draped in a dense fog. In every direction the ground ends in a cliff, leaving the player trapped on a tall island-like structure in the middle of nowhere. The centerpiece of the world is the massive screen displaying an ominous countdown.

At each hour that passes, a bell chimes, the world fades to black, and returns in a slightly different state.

== Locations ==
Scattered throughout the forest are various points of interest. These locations will sometimes change in response to the time passing.

=== The Button ===
A large, flat area with a checkerboard-patterned floor. The button sits in the middle, with the screen behind held up by metal supports, and dozens of wires dangling down connecting back to the button. 

On the right side of the screen are cardboard cutouts of the world's developers, credits for supporters, the tip jar, and a giant stone slab that tallies how many days the world has survived.

Strung up in the trees surrounding the button are various decorations placed in celebration of certain events, such as the world surviving its first year.

=== The Mailbox ===
A mailbox. It can be interacted with to check if it has mail. If not, the mailbox shakes, as if shaking its head at you.

=== The Well ===
A well that has been sealed off with a wooden board.

At the bottom of the well, there is a hidden shop.

=== Cryptids of the Forest ===
Various photos of VRChat users strung up with strings and tacks across a set of boulders.

=== The Campfire ===
A burnt out campfire with large rocks forming a circle around it.

=== The Playground ===
A playground that features a Dome Climber, a Slide, a Swingset with two swings, a Merry-Go-Round, and a working Trampoline.

Near the playground is a set of five large boulders increasing in height. On top of the two shortest boulders are plushies based on the avatars of Widget365 and Crazium.

=== Wisher's Bridge ===
A broken bridge that appears to lead off the edge of the cliff.

=== Spires ===
There is a set of five tall boulders, arranged with one in the middle and four more surrounding them. The surrounding boulders have coloured gemstones embedded in them pointing towards the center boulder.

=== Flower Patch ===
A patch of flowers that blow in the wind.

=== The Bench ===
A bench on a ledge sitting just off the side of the cliff. There is a large cracked boulder on its right side.

=== Fancy Door ===
A door on a ledge sitting just off the east side of the cliff. There is a giant lock on it.

=== The Shop ===
At the 18th hour, the board covering the well moves, and it can be entered. Jumping into it takes you to a small "shop" with a few items, though they do not need to be purchased and can just be picked up. The shopkeeper seems to be away and has left a sign reading "OUT TO LUNCH".
* '''Future Seeing Relic''' (9.99€€) - A Crazy 8 Ball. It shows a random fortune through its window when clicked. Its tooltip reads "Ask a question and shake the Crazy 8 Ball for an answer!"
* '''Explody Pal''' (50€€) - A plush of a bomb character. It makes an exploding sound when clicked.
* '''Souvenir Resetter''' (3.50€€) - A miniature button. It makes the button's noise when clicked.

== Timed Events ==
At the top of each hour that passes, the world will change state. This triggers predetermined events that range from changing the background music, to unlocking areas, or completely changing the look of the world.

<!--
NOTE: Figure out which hour these events happen at
The mailbox will spit out a letter addressed to "Craz E. Um, Craz Co HQ, Los Angeles 90091".

A sheet of lined paper appears at the playground containing a hand-drawn map of the forest, signed "Eric. W. 1/24/24"

Another sheet of lined paper appears that has a short essay written on it about the button


-->
{| class="wikitable"
|+ (Known) Timed Events
|-
! Hour !! Events
|-
| 24 || The default state of the world.
|-
| 23 || The background music changes to a slightly more unsettling version of the same tune.
|-
| 22 || A light drizzle starts.
The plushies move from their original spots and can be found near the supporter's credits.
|-
| 21 || The mailbox spits out eggs and bacon.

The plushies can be found on Wisher's Bridge.
|-
|
|
|-
| 18 || The world is much darker, and the rainfall increases to a torrential downpour.

The well opens, and a shop at the bottom of it is accessible.
|-
| 17 || The forest is suddenly covered in mushrooms. 

The music changes to a very strange song. 
|-
| 16 || The world is now extremely dark, almost impossible to see.

The mushrooms disappear. 

The Mailbox will spit out a broken umbrella.
|-
|||
|-
| 0 || It is presumed the world dies by this point.
|}

== Trivia == 
* Despite its age, as of 2026 the world has been kept alive continuously for over 3 years, which is ''over 1000 days''
* After the reception, popularity, and longevity of this world, Crazium would go on to make a world with the exact opposite concept: "[[Community:This Ship has 5 Years of Oxygen Remaining]]"
* For April Fool's day 2023, chess pieces were placed on the floor around the button. The timer was also inverted.

[[Category:Worlds]]
[[Category:English]]
[[Category:Needs images]]