== Notice ==

Your user page included the use of the r-slur. This is against VRChat's TOS/Guidelines and has been removed. Please refrain from using this language in the future.

To understand why the use of the r-slur is unacceptable, please read this article:
https://thelowell.org/12234/opinions/its-time-to-end-the-use-of-a-hate-filled-slur/ [[User:Usr c272d4fe-f1f8-4d77-8008-cad6cb81d6cd|Usr c272d4fe-f1f8-4d77-8008-cad6cb81d6cd]] ([[User talk:Usr c272d4fe-f1f8-4d77-8008-cad6cb81d6cd|talk]]) 18:21, 16 October 2024 (UTC)

== Suspension notice ==

You have been temporarily suspended from the Wiki for multiple guideline violations, regarding inappropriate content on your userpage. The most recent, which caused this was the unusual use of pointing out the "age of consent" in your page. This sort of language is often associated with predatory behavior, and considering your age, it can appear that you are inviting potential predators to interact inappropriately with you. This suspension lasts until March 26, 2026.

Assuming you likely live in the United States, it should be made clear that many states and countries prohibit sexual relations with minors, even if the age of consent where you may live is 16. It is immoral, and a federal crime for an adult to interact inappropriately with anyone under the age of 18 online, regardless of the age of consent laws wherever either party lives.

[[User:Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0|Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0]] ([[User talk:Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0|talk]]) 00:45, 27 March 2025 (UTC)