{{Noticebox/Community}}{{Noticebox/wip}}Here are some things that [[User:Usr 923acdda-9202-4f4d-91c0-d0d7269c96a5|Fax]] considers useful or practical when writing U# code, in no particular order.

''This page was originally posted on [https://vrclibrary.com/wiki/books/faxs-retrospectives-and-prefabs/page/udonsharp-nitpicks VRCLibrary], and was updated for the VRChat wiki. These suggestions are somewhat personal, so if you have any suggestions, please discuss them!''

= Attributes =
Attributes, such as <code>[SerializeField]</code>, can help make your classes, variables, or methods more useful.

=== UdonBehaviourSyncMode ===
Use U#'s <code>[https://udonsharp.docs.vrchat.com/udonsharp/#udonbehavioursyncmode UdonBehaviourSyncMode]</code> attribute to make sure your <code>UdonBehaviour</code> always uses the sync mode you intended. For example:<syntaxhighlight lang="c#">using UdonSharp;
using UnityEngine;

[UdonBehaviourSyncMode(BehaviourSyncMode.Manual)] 
public class Foo : UdonSharpBehaviour
{
  // This behaviour always uses manual sync.
}</syntaxhighlight>Alternatively, you can choose the sync mode UdonBehaviours in the Unity inspector. This is more flexible and allows you to use different sync modes for different instances of the same behaviour - but that's a very rare use case. Instead, you may accidentally select the wrong mode without realizing it, causing networking to break unexpectedly. <code>UdonBehaviourSyncMode</code> is usually more reliable.

=== SerializeField ===
Use the <code>[SerializeField]</code> attribute to make <code>private</code> variable visible in the Unity inspector, allowing you to assign references to assets or scene objects:<syntaxhighlight>
[SerializeField] private Transform foo; // This shows up in the Unity inspector.
</syntaxhighlight>Instead of using <code>[SerializeField]</code>, you can make the variable <code>public</code> instead. However, this '''also''' makes those variables accessible from any other UdonBehaviour. If that's what you want, you should consider using <code>[HideInInspector]</code> attribute to prevent your public variables from causing clutter in the inspector.

=== Tooltip and Header ===
Use the <code>[Header]</code> and <code>[Tooltip]</code> attributes to organize variables in the Unity inspector. For example:<syntaxhighlight lang="c#">
[Header("Materials")]
[SerializeField] private Material materialFoo;
[SerializeField] private Material materialBar;
[SerializeField] private Material materialBaz;

[Header("Transforms")]
[Tooltip("This tooltip appears when hovering your mouse over transformFoo in the inspector.")]
[SerializeField] private Transform transformFoo;
</syntaxhighlight>

= Networking =
This section contains some tips related to networking and synchronizing changes between players.

=== Call OnDeserialization locally ===
When the networking owner of an UdonBehaviour uses <code>RequestSerialization()</code>, all players '''except''' the owner execute <code>OnDeserialization()</code>.

But if you override <code>OnDeserialization()</code> in your script, the owner can manually execute it. This is useful if you'd like the owner of the script to execute <code>OnDeserialization()</code>, to replicate the same behaviour as other players.

For example, the following script allows the owner to increase a <code>score</code> variable and update <code>scoreText</code> for all players:<syntaxhighlight lang="c#" line="1">[UdonSynced] private int score;
[SerializeField] private TextMeshProUGUI scoreText;

// If the owner calls the method below, the score increases by one.
private void IncreaseScore()
{
  if (!Networking.IsOwner(gameObject)) return;
  score++;
  RequestSerialization();
  OnDeserialization();
}

public override void OnDeserialization()
{
  scoreText.text = score.ToString();
}</syntaxhighlight>Note that <code>OnDeserialization()</code> ''without'' parameters is a deprecated method. More complex scripts may require <code>OnDeserialization(DeserializationResult)</code> , so consider the following approach:

# Write your own method, e.g., <code>UpdateScoreText()</code>.
# Make the owner call it immediately after <code>RequestSerialization()</code>.
# Make remote players call it from <code>OnDeserialization(DeserializationResult result)</code>.

=== FieldChangeCallback ===
Use the <code>[FieldChangeCallback]</code> attribute to respond to synced variable changes without using <code>OnDeserialization()</code>. For example:<syntaxhighlight lang="c#" line="1">[SerializeField] private TextMeshProUGUI scoreText;
[UdonSynced, FieldChangeCallback(nameof(Score))] private int score;

private bool Score
{
  get => score;
  set
  {
    score = value;
    scoreText.text = score.ToString();
  }
}

// If the owner calls the method below, the score increases by one.
private void IncreaseScore()
{
  if (!Networking.IsOwner(gameObject)) return;
  Score++;
  RequestSerialization();
}</syntaxhighlight>This approach is especially useful for synced variables that interact with your scene in simple ways, e.g., updating text or animators. You can still use <code>OnDeserialization()</code> elsewhere, where appropriate. Especially because <code>[FieldChangeCallback]</code> has a drawback that's easy to forget:

=== FieldChangeCallback execution order issues ===
''Note: This section has not been proofread yet! It may contain factual errors.''

If you use <code>[FieldChangeCallback]</code>to execute cute, avoid referencing other variables that may not have been deserialized yet. For example:<syntaxhighlight>[SerializeField] private TextMeshProUGUI scoreText;
[SerializeField] private TextMeshProUGUI roundText;
[UdonSynced, FieldChangeCallback(nameof(Score))] private int score;
[UdonSynced] private int round;

private bool Score
{
  get => score;
  set
  {
    score = value;
    scoreText.text = score.ToString();
    roundText.text = round.ToString(); // ⚠️ round might be outdated for remote players!
  }
}

// If the owner calls the method below, the score and round increase by one.
private void IncreaseScoreAndRound()
{
  if (!Networking.IsOwner(gameObject)) return;
  round++;
  Score++; // ⚠️ Only the owner will see the round and score text correctly.
  RequestSerialization();
}</syntaxhighlight>That's because <code>[FieldChangeCallback]</code> may execute ''before'' all synced variables have been deserialized. You may accidentally use outdated values without realizing it! Instead, use <code>OnDeserialization</code> or <code>SendCustomEventDelayed</code> to wait until all variables are deserialized. 

== Optimization ==
These tips can help reduce the CPU utilization caused by your scripts.

=== Cache LocalPlayer ===
Cache <code>Networking.LocalPlayer</code> by saving it as a local variable. Re-use the variable instead of calling <code>Networking.LocalPlayer</code> again. For example:<syntaxhighlight lang="c#">
private VRCPlayerApi localPlayer;

private void Start()
{
  localPlayer = Networking.LocalPlayer;
}

private void Update()
{
  Debug.Log(localPlayer.GetPosition());
}
</syntaxhighlight>This ''slightly'' improves the performance of your behaviour, especially if you reference the local player one or more times per update.