== Upload removal for duplicates ==

I recently uploaded 3 images to extend onto the VRRat images and I did not see someone else had uploaded them before I started, If the following could be deleted: VRRatRearview.webp, VRRatQuickmenuRearviewWHP.png, VRRatQuickMenuAprFL.png
Thanks, Couldn't find anywhere to request a delete of a file. [[User:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509]] ([[User talk:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|talk]]) 05:39, 3 April 2025 (UTC)

:done [[User:Usr 40be82e7-f7d5-4548-b314-3fc7b26d22ee|Usr 40be82e7-f7d5-4548-b314-3fc7b26d22ee]] ([[User talk:Usr 40be82e7-f7d5-4548-b314-3fc7b26d22ee|talk]]) 09:38, 3 April 2025 (UTC)

== Guides:How to get started with vr djing ==

I reverted your revert to the [[Guides:How to get started with vr djing]] page, applying and removing certain infoboxes and templates on the VRCWiki are reserved for use by [[VRCWiki:Maintainers|maintainers]]. For future reference, please do not revert or undo these. This is the [[Community_talk:Tropical_Island_Villa#c-Usr_578aa632-439b-4c41-9266-776323ba9ad2-20250808060000-Usr_1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509-20250808045300|second incident]] where you reverted a deletion notice and I informed you last time.

I would suggest you read through our [[VRCWiki:Backseat_moderation|Backseat moderation policy]]. [[User:Usr 578aa632-439b-4c41-9266-776323ba9ad2|Usr 578aa632-439b-4c41-9266-776323ba9ad2]] ([[User talk:Usr 578aa632-439b-4c41-9266-776323ba9ad2|talk]]) 22:40, 2 September 2025 (UTC)

:I did not see this talk till now, I find this quite abhorrent and disruptive to users who wish to make creative content, The MoS is stated to be a guideline, You are emposing it as a rule.
:I see this user creating an initial guide to encourage users to go out and search and create, not to trolls or be a disturbance, I think very strongly you are attempting to strongly dictate the wiki still towards the maintainers personal blog, not for genuine interest of expansion for the wiki itself.
:Its quite unfair and unjustified, Yes there are rules, but have you ever thought about being human for a day? [[User:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509]] ([[User talk:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|talk]]) 22:54, 2 September 2025 (UTC)

== Talk page restoration: "Revertion of deletion" ==

Source-add [[User:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509]] ([[User talk:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|talk]]) 12:58, 15 September 2025 (UTC)
== Revertion of deletion ==

Can I please get an explaination on why the page is being marked for deletion when it is not empty? Lets look at https://wiki.vrchat.com/wiki/Community:Popcorn_Palace for example which Is a pure empty page, This seems rather absurd and targeting '''without''' prior checking of details of community pages, it even has stub and community page unlike the popcorn palace page, This is '''Not''' a justifiable revert. @[[User:Aries'|Aries']] [[User:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509]] ([[User talk:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|talk]]) 04:53, 8 August 2025 (UTC)

:This seems quite unfair for not only myself but potentially others who are looking to add to the wiki, As far as im aware the VRCWiki needs activity, with limited things to update and change having stubs and empty pages are a Good thing to encourage users to come forward and edit, when a new user comes to the wiki and sees full pages they may lack the encouragement to start writing on an idea, when provided with an empty page a user has the ability to see ahead of their own thoughts and start writing, I believe its wrong and very unhelpful towards the Wiki to be deleting pages because they are empty. [[User:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509]] ([[User talk:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|talk]]) 05:08, 8 August 2025 (UTC)
::I support this.
::I think we should, in general, give the wiki more freedom and see where it develops. We should figure out how people on VRChat like their wiki and how it works best for everyone, rather than enforcing rules we defined at the start.
::If the idea is to create (nearly) empty pages to encourage more people to write, then I'm for it. We should at least give this a try and see how it develops. We have nothing to lose here.
::When talking about world pages: personally, I would like to see at least the infobox on the right side of the page. I would update all world pages to contain this infobox. I'm confident the community will adopt this over time (no new rules needed to ensure this). This would be much more motivating, seeing cooperative work (a positive feedback loop), than a deletion message (a negative feedback loop).
::After some time, we can check if this results in trash creation or if it leads to people being more engaged with the wiki. [[User:Usr 40be82e7-f7d5-4548-b314-3fc7b26d22ee|Usr 40be82e7-f7d5-4548-b314-3fc7b26d22ee]] ([[User talk:Usr 40be82e7-f7d5-4548-b314-3fc7b26d22ee|talk]]) 15:05, 17 August 2025 (UTC)
:The deletion notice was applied by a different maintainer, if you have an issue with it, you'd have to ask them. You can't just delete the notice. [[User:Usr 578aa632-439b-4c41-9266-776323ba9ad2|Usr 578aa632-439b-4c41-9266-776323ba9ad2]] ([[User talk:Usr 578aa632-439b-4c41-9266-776323ba9ad2|talk]]) 06:00, 8 August 2025 (UTC)
::Its not about just removing the notice, According to how the wiki is ran an empty page should be empty, The page is not empty when compairing it to the popcorn palace world page for example, To get a better understanding, @[[User:Patroll|Patroll]] Why did you mark the page for deletion?
::What was it that landed you on the page to mark it? Just by random page occurance or were you browsing?
::I can look at a few other pages I have created and left blank for either others to input or just not having the time myself to create a write up, I'd like you to consider removing the delete notice to simply allow others to maybe add to it in the future be it including or excluding myself, In the wiki we need pages to edit but can't if there are none. (leaving empty pages encourages user input) [[User:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509]] ([[User talk:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|talk]]) 05:50, 9 August 2025 (UTC)
:::@[[User:Patroll|Patroll]] I've noticed you've been active on the wiki but I've not gotten a reply which indicates you either have dismissed your notification or not looked, I would really appiratate understanding why the page was marked for deletion when its demotivating for myself and others to contribute towards the wiki [[User:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509]] ([[User talk:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|talk]]) 16:08, 13 August 2025 (UTC)
::::Hello once again! @[[User:Patroll|Patroll]] I notice you are still active on the wiki over sevreal days have passed and I've not gotten any confirmation of your reason for the deleting the page, I find this to be very rude, not only towards myself but other users on the Wiki.
::::This type of harsh non-responsive actions discouraging users from adding onto the wiki, As a maintainer Your job is to uphold strong quaility standards assuring every user is posting correctly and assuring users know their mistakes or flaws, Ingoring requests for help and understanding I find shameful and in my own '''<u>Personal opinion</u>''' Very rude and disrespectful towards VRCWiki.
::::I hope you are able to explain the pages deletion, There are no policys that follow any statement you have placed onto the page, I asked another maintainer within this post and the response was to wait yours. (I belive this is wrong, maintainers are universal and can counter-act eachothers actions postivitly (which they refuse to take the blame for which is wrong))) [[User:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509]] ([[User talk:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|talk]]) 09:38, 16 August 2025 (UTC)
:::::I would recommend joining the VRChat Wiki Discord, you might not receive a response here, talk pages have low visibility. [[User:Usr 578aa632-439b-4c41-9266-776323ba9ad2|Usr 578aa632-439b-4c41-9266-776323ba9ad2]] ([[User talk:Usr 578aa632-439b-4c41-9266-776323ba9ad2|talk]]) 21:29, 16 August 2025 (UTC)
::::::I do not wish to join the discord in order to contribute or resolve issues, Talk pages are primarily visable from the contributor hub, and the user has been Directly mentioned 3+ times which has notifications, I have no issues waitting for a response from Patroll. [[User:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509]] ([[User talk:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|talk]]) 23:24, 16 August 2025 (UTC)
:::::Not sure about @[[User:Usr_7d3dca04-5671-4738-a277-04fad9b586e4|Patroll]]'s reasoning but as for me, the marked for deletion removal is justified and correct. The page is currently empty as per the [[:Category:Empty|definition]]: ''"that only have a Title and less than a few words of content"''. The world infobox does not count as "words of content". And yes, you're right to assume that, for example, the Popcorn Palace page should be deleted as well.
:::::We as maintainers are volunteers, we are not obligated to keep up with created pages or other wiki activity "24/7", some stuff does fall through the cracks. We do uphold "quality standards", and as for creating empty pages with not even a sentence added to it, I personally wouldn't consider that page to be "of quality".
:::::As a personal note, I don't agree that creating an empty page encourages users to make edits, if anything, it could make them even more confused. Having a wanted page and an empty page still results in the user thinking the same question, "Where/How do I start writing this page?". The user still has to start from nothing, that's why stub pages exist.
:::::Also, this "Empty/Stub/Proofread" system we currently have is a product of us starting to open the wiki up to the public. The empty category was to indicate "we should probably write something here before opening it up to the public", I think it has outlived its purpose. Wikipedia and other major wikis have policies for "[[wikipedia:Wikipedia:Speedy_deletion|Speedy Deletions]]", that cover issues like this, for example, purely empty pages would fall under the [[wikipedia:Wikipedia:Speedy_deletion#A3._No_content|No Content]] criteria.
:::::I'll end off by saying, for me personally, '''quality over quantity'''. If you don't have time creating at least a stub of a page, don't create it. When a user finds a page important, they will create and write enough about it. [[User:Usr c0fd3826-5fbd-465b-869b-142f974af714|Usr c0fd3826-5fbd-465b-869b-142f974af714]] ([[User talk:Usr c0fd3826-5fbd-465b-869b-142f974af714|talk]]) 00:32, 17 August 2025 (UTC)
::::::I can see your perspective, From my view this shows as condescending towards the vrcwiki, Im still Heavily confused on the intent of deleting the page itself.
::::::It creates its own location where users can See and find these empty pages which can encourage users to go and see these worlds and maybe write them, When pages are deleted they won't beable to start that post because it was deleted without reason.
::::::I believe is seriously unhealthy to run a wiki like this when the intent is to inform and share information for and With others, as far as im aware having a couple more bytes of data doesn't cost vrchat anything and I find it near impossable to agree with your statement at all.
::::::I intentionally fed stub into my pages to make sure users know they can add and supply info to this, This doesn't seem like quality, more like an agressive dictatorship towards how this wiki should be ran rather then productivity towards encouraging user input.
::::::It has not got to do with number of active pages or quaility pages, '''<u>A wikipida is about Having pages to goto and edit, deleting spots for users to start is <big>REALLY</big> demotivating
::::::</u>'''
::::::I request the page be removed from deletion and left with a stub // empty tag so users are able to find these empty pages and come to date
::::::I see this deletion not only of my page, but any empty page, as out-right wrong and heavily discouraging to creating content for the wiki and Ruins new users and current users experiences of the VRCWiki, Including your fellow maintainer, People have mentioned this preivously over talks and its shameful behaviour.
::::::I say this with respect because were all human but I do not see these types of behavioural actions being normal nor ok, To suppress the ability to let users share their creativity is sad (Or atleast given the chance, because the removal of the page causes no problems or issues for the wiki expect additional places for people to see and edit). [[User:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509]] ([[User talk:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|talk]]) 01:07, 17 August 2025 (UTC)
:::::::Every wiki runs the same way, the VRChat Wiki is no exception. The policies/guidelines are to keep things consistent and to demonstrate good practices. Calling this "unhealthy to run a wiki like this" hurts all wikis, not just ours. 
:::::::I'd argue that we are one of the most open UGC "game" wikis, we allow community pages for worlds, avatars, assets, resources, guides, etc. Most UGC game wikis do not allow this type of content, and focus only on official pages. We've removed the moderation queue earlier this year, to allow any user to edit any page freely. Labelling us as an "aggressive dictatorship" is wildly out of proportion and insulting.
:::::::All a user has to do to this page is to add a sentence or two, and it would be considered a stub, removing the deletion notice. We all want more people to contribute to the wiki, but there are better ways to go about that, starting with getting users to the wiki. For example, more promotion from VRChat itself, creating more [[Special:WantedPages|Wanted Pages]] (the page is a bit messed up right now), creating a community portal, etc. [[User:Usr c0fd3826-5fbd-465b-869b-142f974af714|Usr c0fd3826-5fbd-465b-869b-142f974af714]] ([[User talk:Usr c0fd3826-5fbd-465b-869b-142f974af714|talk]]) 03:40, 17 August 2025 (UTC)
::::::::With great respect, I currently have observed the wiki and gained feedback from preivous wiki edittors, and it comes to great shame I have to speak for others when they agree in calling this an dictatorship, '''<u>The correct term would be an oligarchy.</u>'''
::::::::Removal of the moderation queue is amazing to see and hear, I was not aware of this change as theres no offical changelog of the VRCWiki unless it's hidden somewhere, it would be a nice to have to see how things are changing for everyone to let them know of new or changed features.
::::::::> All a user has to do to this page is to add a sentence or two, and it would be considered a stub
::::::::Yes you are correct, Which all my pages I created for the community or even maintainers themselfs to work on has these values, I provided the baseline info box, stub and community labs warning, All following your Exact wording.
::::::::You cannot blame VRChat for lack of promotion when this is a community based project, something people need to do and find on their own, VRChat have prioritys of making money, You as a maintainer should be promoting the wiki yourself and be proud of what you edit and put on here, If you care about the wiki show it and help it grow more.
::::::::Dont focus on what already exisits, Add and don't run away or ask things in private discord channels which the public cannot see progress or changes, Not only is it unfair for every VRCWiki user and its also '''<u><big>attempting to privatise a public informatic location.</big></u>''' [[User:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509]] ([[User talk:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|talk]]) 15:53, 17 August 2025 (UTC)
:Oh dear, this seems to have gotten a bit out of hand here! Comfy Chloe do you mind dm'ing me on Discord about this issue to get this sorted out? I'm not by my computer right now and talk pages on mobile are not fun to read after a certain point :x
:My Discord is trixxedheart, please message me and I'll help with this issue ASAP! [[User:Usr_c272d4fe-f1f8-4d77-8008-cad6cb81d6cd|<span style="color:#9966ff;">TrixxedHeart</span> <span style="font-size:6px; position: relative; top: -1em;">(They/Them)</span>]] ([[User Talk:Usr_c272d4fe-f1f8-4d77-8008-cad6cb81d6cd|talk]]) 03:59, 17 August 2025 (UTC)
::I have no issues waitting time till you are able to return to your computer if a day or longer, I have no intentions of resolving public matters in private spaces.
::This issue should be explained quite well on this talk page as it explains the exessivity of a maintainer acting out of defined policy, The best resolve would be an apploage from Patroll for his mistake and the page to be reverted from deletion along side empty pages not getting unjutifiably deleted, I really care about the VRCWiki and its important to discuss matters of public opinion In public spaces, '''<big><u>Please Stop requesting I join or talk over discord</u></big>''', These matters are Public, Not private. [[User:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509]] ([[User talk:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|talk]]) 11:47, 17 August 2025 (UTC)
:::To better clarify as per my new discussion on Popcorn Palace, An empty page is '''<u>defined by its catagory, which states "Please create pages and add them to this Category, if you feel like a topic should be covered, but do not know what to write."</u>'''
:::This page and other pages that are empty, Classifies as that, I do feel the need for topics and worlds to be covered, They are community content where users can input, Revolking that right removes the community element from the wiki, This is a place of neutraility and these actions are being based on personal views of pages, Not from defintion, I belive maintainers are acting Out of authoirty of rank, As if the wiki must be ruled by indiviuals and not a community.
:::I hold the greatest respect for the VRCWiki and I would really like this to be a place for everyone to come and go to input, but deletion tags makes it difficult for newer users to get involved, Users will find empty pages by going to the contribuitor hub, Seeing "Pages needing attention" which means "oh hey I can edit this, I will try my best" at Any point.
:::Once a page is marked for deletiong users can't do that anymore, What does the deletion do, I'm aware it only saves byte data (im not an engineer, but thats my guess), Please revert and remove these unjustified deletions, Its degrading the wikis ability to be a Community based project, Not Maintainer project, '''<u>Maintainers review and check work AFTER its been added</u>''', not moderating empty pages which don't require this. [[User:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509]] ([[User talk:Usr 1a5319fb-f3a7-4ee9-8ed3-83c96116b509|talk]]) 12:12, 17 August 2025 (UTC)
:I want to step in here with a suggestion. To make things clearer and fairer for contributors, I have proposed a 1-week "to be deleted" period when a page is flagged. During that time, the notice will include a reason so the page creator (or anyone else) can update it and resolve the issue. If no action is taken in that timeframe, the deletion will proceed.  
:This should help avoid misunderstandings and ensure contributors feel they have a chance to fix things while still keeping the wiki organized and useful. [[User:Usr 5cd9007b-1802-45fe-92e2-0b6617639344|Tupper - VRC Team]] ([[User talk:Usr 5cd9007b-1802-45fe-92e2-0b6617639344|talk]]) 18:52, 18 August 2025 (UTC)