== Edit to Badges page rejected. ==

Hello Ri ?, your edit to the badges page, adding a 6000 month gifting badge, has been rejected. This was due to no mention of the badge in any patch notes and a low resolution image that we believe is photoshopped. Please refrain from making any intentionally misleading edits to the wiki. 

If you have any questions or would like to talk further feel free to respond here or in the VRChat Wiki Discord server. [[User:Usr 4edc62fd-d01b-44cb-85a6-411e66b7606f|Usr 4edc62fd-d01b-44cb-85a6-411e66b7606f]] ([[User talk:Usr 4edc62fd-d01b-44cb-85a6-411e66b7606f|talk]]) 18:04, 13 February 2025 (UTC)

== Edit to Phamtom Sense page reverted ==

Hello Ri ?, as personal experience is not considered  to be "Scientific Evidence" your edit has been reverted.

Please refrain from doing unneccesary edit to pages on the wiki.

If you have any questions or would like to talk further feel free to respond here or in the VRChat Wiki Discord server.

As you got warned 2 times without your follow up, your edit permission may temporary suspended if case require warning happen again in the feature.
[[User:Usr 2c0d9735-9342-4db3-9c48-5eb152581b08|Tony_Lewis]] ([[User talk:Usr 2c0d9735-9342-4db3-9c48-5eb152581b08|talk]]) 12:05, 16 February 2025 (UTC)

== 'Category:Chibi avatars' created ==
An article for "Chibi" was pending in the moderation queue. I do not think this was suited to have a dedicated article on the VRChat Wiki, however, this would have a better spot as a Category page, rather than an article. Please see [[:Category:Chibi avatars]], which is currently empty. If you add <nowiki>[[Category:Chibi avatars]]</nowiki> onto an article, it will place the article for that avatar onto the category page.

On a related note, there is also a stubbed article about [[Community:Anime culture in VRChat]] that needs some work. Perhaps 'chibi' can also be listed. Feel free to work on this page too!

Please make sure an avatar can meet [[VRCWiki:Notability]] guidelines first, before creating an article. If you are uncertain if an avatar can be deemed objectively notable, we can discuss this on the VRChat Wiki [[Discord servers|Discord server]]. Thanks for your enthusiasm! Don't forget to acknowledge the above two topics created, please and thank you. [[User:Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0|Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0]] ([[User talk:Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0|talk]]) 12:30, 16 February 2025 (UTC)