== Be mindful of your edits, please ==

Greetings, pancake yman.

Your edits for the following articles have been rejected: ''[[Gallery]], [[Reporting]], Template:Joke, [[Trust and Safety]].'' As well as reverted an edit for: ''[[Community:We Met in Virtual Reality]]'', and ''[[Community:AudioLink]]''.

VRChat Wiki is one of VRChat's official resources for information, and all edits, especially on VRChat-namespace articles, should be professional and should not contain vulgar 'jokes' or 'tips'. Further edits such as this will result in a temporary suspension on your editing capabilities. As far as information on reporting and trust and safety go, VRChat's T&S employees will not disclose their position to any user. Anyone claiming to be such is likely not telling the truth. The most ideal way to create a report is by making a support ticket on VRChat's website, as it is mentioned already in the article.

We want to encourage you to continue supporting the VRChat Wiki in a professional manner. However it is required that you please read VRChat Wiki's ''[[VRCWiki:Guidelines|Guidelines]]'', and look for similar rules and policies on the ''[[VRCWiki:Contributor hub|Contributor Hub]]'' page for guidance. Practice makes perfect!

Please feel free to respond here if you have any questions or responses to follow up with, and/or feel free to join the VRChat Wiki ''[[Discord servers|Discord server]]''. Thanks!

[[User:Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0|Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0]] ([[User talk:Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0|talk]]) 23:38, 30 January 2025 (UTC)