== Name of the Page ==

VRChat shouln't be nessesarry in the title. I think a better title would be "Furry" [[User:Usr 40be82e7-f7d5-4548-b314-3fc7b26d22ee|Usr 40be82e7-f7d5-4548-b314-3fc7b26d22ee]] ([[User talk:Usr 40be82e7-f7d5-4548-b314-3fc7b26d22ee|talk]]) 08:48, 12 September 2024 (UTC)
:There lot's of content in VRChat that contain the word "Furry" in it, or is adjacent. Chances are, "Community:Furry" would be a disambiguation page for furry content. This is the VRChat Wiki, and there's much to cover regarding furry culture in VRChat; the page is not yet complete, and there will be paragraphs relevant to the subject matter under the 'Furry and VRChat' heading once I (or someone else) gets to it. Please also take a look at [[Community:Anime culture in VRChat]] and [[Community:LGBT culture in VRChat]]. This will also be closely linked to [[Community:Culture]]. [[User:Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0|Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0]] ([[User talk:Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0|talk]]) 08:52, 12 September 2024 (UTC)

== Furality ==
Due to the conflict of interest policy I won't edit it myself, but:

Due to the conflict of interest policy I won't edit it myself, but:

<code>During the pandemic, a brand new convention dubbed [https://wiki.vrchat.com/index.php?title=Community:Furality_Online_Xperience&action=edit&redlink=1 Furality Online Xperience] (FOX) would be hosted natively in VRChat, without any previous in-person venues. Furality would eventually become a sponsored event by VRChat, Inc.</code>

*The official abbreviation of Furality Online Experience is "F.O.X." not "FOX". (Example official use - https://x.com/furality)
*<code>Furality would eventually become a sponsored event by VRChat, Inc.</code>
**I don't know if "sponsored" is the proper/correct word here - "partnered" or "promoted" perhaps?
**"Furality" is not an event. "Furality", short for Furality, Inc., is an organization creating events such as F.O.X. (https://furality.org/about)
[[User:Usr 7d3dca04-5671-4738-a277-04fad9b586e4|Usr 7d3dca04-5671-4738-a277-04fad9b586e4]] ([[User talk:Usr 7d3dca04-5671-4738-a277-04fad9b586e4|talk]]) 14:42, 24 September 2024 (UTC)

I have agreed with the decisions to change the acronym to F.O.X., because I now remember this was the case when I was creating the Furality page on Wikifur years ago.

I also also changed "sponsored" to "partnered", though I don't really seem to see the difference. I originally used 'sponsored' since VRChat is licensing Furality to temporarily use advanced API and server tools and statistics, as well as promote them during events. These words seem interchangeable to me.

Furality can refer to either the convention, or Furality, Inc. (the VRChat group says otherwise as "[https://vrchat.com/home/group/grp_210dbc09-c3da-4ebb-b641-73c99ce2619b Furality]"), and I am going to keep this verbiage, because venues like San-Rio Fest, or VKet are still sponsored/partnered events.

Let me know if you have any further concerns. [[User:Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0|Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0]] ([[User talk:Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0|talk]]) 15:01, 24 September 2024 (UTC)