== ToxMod heading ==

I noticed that ToxMod was added to the leak page. This isn't the only time that rumors about VRChat allegedly utilizing Toxmod. VRChat denied any claims of confirming a partnership with them, and have no plans to implement Toxmod (as of 2022), "Leaks will typically be removed from this page when they are... ...removed after being denied through official VRChat sources." - just checking to see if there is any new information on implementing Toxmod. [[User:Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0|Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0]] ([[User talk:Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0|talk]]) 18:07, 9 January 2026 (UTC)

:Even when VRChat denies it, there is evidence. The text "removed after being denied through official VRChat sources." was written when we had no references for evidence.
:I'm missing the evidence and hope to find it back for: "In 2022 ToxMod got partially integrated.". If it get's removed here then it should be moved to [[Removed Features]]. Or a page like "Cancled Features" but i didn't want to open a 3th page (yet). [[User:Usr 40be82e7-f7d5-4548-b314-3fc7b26d22ee|<span style="color:#ec6807;">Hackebein</span>]] ([[User talk:Usr 40be82e7-f7d5-4548-b314-3fc7b26d22ee|talk]]) 21:29, 9 January 2026 (UTC)

::I see. I was pretty sure the idea of Toxmod being implemented was dismissed, per the citation that was referenced in the article, from the Developer Update in 2022.
::<blockquote>''"We had previously been in talks with Modulate about integrating ToxMod into VRChat. We have no current or future plans to implement ToxMod into VRChat. If our plans change to include ToxMod, we will let you know and communicate these plans to the VRChat community."''</blockquote>
::<blockquote>''"Notably, VRChat was inadvertently listed as a ToxMod customer on the Modulate site for a short period earlier this year before we gave approval."'' -Tupper (December 1, 2022 - [[Developer Updates|Developer Update]])</blockquote> 
::This wasn't anything that was implemented, and they were in the discussion phase, but Modulate must have jumped the gun to include VRChat as a customer. [[User:Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0|Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0]] ([[User talk:Usr 8ee44c1a-f905-4e08-bb61-e1cd34e09fc0|talk]]) 05:33, 10 January 2026 (UTC)
:::As i wrote, Implementation did happen to some degree [[User:Usr 40be82e7-f7d5-4548-b314-3fc7b26d22ee|<span style="color:#ec6807;">Hackebein</span>]] ([[User talk:Usr 40be82e7-f7d5-4548-b314-3fc7b26d22ee|talk]]) 07:56, 10 January 2026 (UTC)

== Leaks vs Mentioned ==

The recent edit to the leaks page includes features that should not be classified as a "leak" in my opinion. 

For example, "Character Controller" and "VRC+ status for Udon" both reference feedback posts and have been '''announced''' via the ask forums. The others, like "Render pipeline", items & age verification rollouts, while not "officially" announced, have been discussed various times publicly by VRChat staff.

While, I do think these things should be added on the wiki, I don't think this page is the right place for it. I picture something like a "Mentioned Features" page, akin to how the Minecraft Wiki does it. 

Leaks should be limited to stuff like, Crowdin updates, API changes, datamined/content, etc, instead of stuff that VRChat would like to do. [[User:Usr c0fd3826-5fbd-465b-869b-142f974af714|Usr c0fd3826-5fbd-465b-869b-142f974af714]] ([[User talk:Usr c0fd3826-5fbd-465b-869b-142f974af714|talk]]) 01:04, 15 March 2026 (UTC)

:I did think about splitting this into a separate "upcoming"/"mentioned" page, but that creates its own problems.
:It would mean constantly moving content back and forth between two pages depending on how much public acknowledgement a feature has received. I also think the line gets pretty blurry once staff have mentioned something publicly. At that point, it becomes hard to decide whether it still counts as a leak or should be treated as upcoming.
:It gets even messier when a feature has both public mentions and additional leaked information. In that case, where does it go?
:I agree that not everything belongs under "leaks" in the strictest sense, but I'm not sure a separate page actually makes the information clearer. It may just make the categorisation more subjective and harder to maintain. [[User:Usr 40be82e7-f7d5-4548-b314-3fc7b26d22ee|<span style="color:#ec6807;">Hackebein</span>]] ([[User talk:Usr 40be82e7-f7d5-4548-b314-3fc7b26d22ee|talk]]) 01:15, 15 March 2026 (UTC)