Thank you for your interest in translating Wiki articles.

==List of available languages==
If you interested in add more language(s), let us know on our discord.
* Brazilian Portuguese
* English
* French
* German
* Italian
* Japanese
* Korean
* Polish
* Russian
* Spanish
* Simplified Chinese
* Traditional Chinese

==List of page available to translate==
As we are under review for how system works, only available to translate on following pages listed under [[Special:PageTranslation]].

== How to translate ==
If you want to translate a page that has never been translated before, please ask a maintainer to enable it. (To be changed)

To translate a page, please follow these steps to continue:
# Add "?veaction=edit" at end of a URL of the page you want to translate.
# Click "Translate this page".
# Select the language to translate to.

==For proofreaders==
Please go to review page and review translation.
If you think it is correct, please approve/fix it accordingly.

Maintainers will double check compliance with Wiki rules accordingly.

If you have any concern, feel free to ask maintainer on discord.

==For maintainers==
<big>'''New pages to be add accordingly based on metric and demand.'''</big>

Please follow the steps below:
(Remove space from syntax when use)

# Pick a page name.
# Go to page and add following formats. (remove blank)
## <nowiki><languages/></nowiki> to really top
## Add <nowiki><translate></nowiki> before <nowiki><!--T:1--></nowiki>.
## Add translation unit accordingly to split between category or/and section. 
## Add ```Special:MyLanguage/``` front of all interlink.
## Add <nowiki></translate></nowiki> after last translation unit.
## Add ```<nowiki>{{#translation:}}</nowiki>``` to all categories after term within blakets.
### *Example: <nowiki>[[Category:Worlds{{#translation:}}]]</nowiki>.
### *Not need to do if no category assigned. 
### *It include template attached to page if not works.
# Go to [[Special:PagePreparation|Prepare page for translation]].
# Input the page name and click "Prepare".
# Enter language settings.
# Press "Publish".
# Click "Mark this page for translation".
# Review the script and click "Mark this version for translation".
# It should work now.

In case the non-translated original page which marked for translation got updated, go to [[Special:PageTranslation|Translatable Pages]] and mark for translation accordingly.