{{Noticebox/Community}}

'''Virtual Market''', also known as '''Vket''', is a recurring partnered community event in VRChat operated by Japanese company HIKKY, Co., Limited<ref>[https://hikky.co.jp/en/ HIKKY's official website] at ''[https://hikky.co.jp/en/ Hikky.co.jp]''. Retrieved September 22, 2025.</ref>. At Virtual Market, VRChat users can download free, and paid avatars and virtual assets, as well as purchase real-world products like food, clothing, and PCs. Virtual Market holds a Guinness world record for "most booths at a virtual reality market event"<ref name="VKetGuinnessBooths">[https://www.guinnessworldrecords.com/world-records/633453-most-booths-at-a-virtual-reality-market-event "Most booths at a virtual reality market event"] on ''[https://www.guinnessworldrecords.com Guinness' World Records™ website]''. Dated February 18, 2021. Retrieved September 22, 2025.</ref>.

==Overview==
On August 26, 2018, it was planned and hosted by the idea of "[https://vrchat.com/home/user/usr_615a4795-c8e3-478e-8e78-82fa6abca194 動く城のフィオ]", which is currently a director of the company, and was held for the first time in about 80 circles in VRChat.


It is the world's largest VR market where you can buy and sell various 3D items such as [[Avatars|avatars]] and real products (clothes, PCs, food and drinks, etc.) at the venue in virtual space.

Since it is held 24 hours a day during the event period, it is a VR event certified by the Guinness World Records, boasting more than 1 million visitors from all over the world as well as Japan<ref name="VKetGuinnessBooths"/><ref>[https://www.guinnessworldrecords.com/world-records/636314-most-photos-of-avatars-uploaded-to-twitter-in-one-hour "Most photos of avatars uploaded to X (formerly Twitter) in one hour"] on ''[https://www.guinnessworldrecords.com Guinness' World Records™ website]''. Dated July 27, 2021. Retrieved September 22, 2025.</ref><ref>[https://www.guinnessworldrecords.com/world-records/770189-most-photos-of-avatars-toasting-uploaded-to-x-in-one-hour "Most photos of avatars toasting uploaded to X in one hour"] on ''[https://www.guinnessworldrecords.com Guinness' World Records™ website]''. Dated August 14, 2021. Retrieved September 22, 2025.</ref><ref>[https://www.guinnessworldrecords.com/world-records/752139-most-videos-of-avatars-performing-choreographed-dance-uploaded-to-twitter-in-one "Most videos of avatars performing choreographed dance uploaded to X (formerly Twitter) in one hour"] on ''[https://www.guinnessworldrecords.com Guinness' World Records™ website]''. Dated July 18, 2021. Retrieved September 22, 2025.</ref> .


In addition to buying and selling goods, many events that provide "experiences" unique to virtual space, such as riding vehicles, watching movies, and participating in music live performances in the venue, are also held, and visitors can communicate with avatars and voice, and you can enjoy the realism as if you are traveling around the city together in the real world.

One of the characteristics is that each venue has a worldview, and different concept worlds are created depending on the event, such as fantasy, science fiction, and Japanese style.
=== Characteristics  ===
"Virtual Market" is certified by Guinness World Records as the world's largest VR market event, and as an event held in virtual space, it is the largest event in the world in terms of the number of exhibiting circles, the number of exhibitors, and the number of visitors.

A wide variety of creators participate in the "Virtual Market" and display and sell their own digital data. Mainly 3D models used as avatars, 3D models of costumes, accessories, and ornaments to be worn on [[Avatars|avatars]], and background 3D models such as buildings and furniture used to create virtual spaces called worlds. We sell software that supports life in virtual space, such as applications that support avatar dressing, and in recent years, items such as doujinshi and doujin music, which have been sold at real instant sales meetings, have also been exhibited.

"Virtual Market" is expanding globally and supports other languages.

Although it is an event that originated in Japan, the recognition from non-Japanese-speaking countries is increasing with each episode, and there are many exhibits and visitors from overseas. In addition, there are cases where creators living in rural areas, who were difficult to participate in real-time sales events due to their place of residence, exhibited for the first time using the "virtual market", and the physical distance constraints unique to virtual space It is an event that takes advantage of nothingness.

=== About the event name ===
"Virtual market" is called "Vket" for short. Since the first event in 2018, multiple abbreviations such as "Viket" and "Vmake" have been used, but the official Twitter of "Virtual Market" uses "#Vket (written in alphabetical)" as the official hashtag.The abbreviation "Vket" was established.  

In addition, from the first Vket to Vket4, the katakana notation logo called "Virtual Market" was used, but after Vket5, "Virtual Market (virtual market in small katakana in the logo) The English logo has been renewed.

This was changed as part of the brand change due to the increase in exhibitors, visitors, and exhibitors from non-Japanese countries.

In addition, "バーチャルマーケット", "Virtual Market" and "Vket" are registered trademarks of HIKKY Co., Ltd.

== History ==

==== The History Leading to the Virtual Market ====
The origins lie in recreating the VR venue of the Vtuber-only event “Youに夢中!” (Crazy About You!), held at the Yokohama Industry and Trade Hall on June 16, 2018—the precursor to Virtual Market—within VRChat. At the time, Vtubers and VR were often discussed in the same context, and the fan bases for Vtubers and VR largely overlapped. “[https://vrchat.com/home/user/usr_615a4795-c8e3-478e-8e78-82fa6abca194 動く城のフィオ]” and “[https://vrchat.com/home/user/usr_46974cc4-1938-43b4-a7dc-b99b68a9809c Mizuna],” who had hosted numerous events within VRChat, planned the VR adaptation of this event. “[https://vrchat.com/home/user/usr_615a4795-c8e3-478e-8e78-82fa6abca194 動く城のフィオ]” operated from within the VR venue, while “[https://vrchat.com/home/user/usr_46974cc4-1938-43b4-a7dc-b99b68a9809c Mizuna]” operated from within the Yokohama Industry and Trade Hall venue. They connected both venues using VR equipment and screens, successfully attempting to hold a doujinshi convention simultaneously in both the real and virtual spaces.

Subsequently, in early July 2018, “[https://vrchat.com/home/user/usr_615a4795-c8e3-478e-8e78-82fa6abca194 動く城のフィオ]” announced plans to “hold an avatar doujinshi market in virtual space.” Supported by VR users and avatar creators who endorsed the idea, the event was held.

During the first half of 2018, VRChat contained numerous avatars with copyright issues, leading to frequent cases of players unknowingly infringing on rights.

Around the same time, creators began emerging who started making 3D models specifically for avatar use, aiming to solve such problems. The first Vket was held based on the desire to be “a meeting place connecting those who create avatars and those who use them.”

==== Event History ====
{| class="wikitable"
!Event Name
!Date of Event
!Event theme
|-
|Virtual Market 1
|August 26, 2018
|
|-
|Virtual Market 2
|March 8 to 10, 2019
|未来にログインしよう!
|-
|Virtual Market 3
|September 21 to 25, 2019
|ANOTHER REALITY
|-
|Virtual Market 4
|April 29 to May 10, 2020
|パラリアルワールド （並行現実世界）
|-
|Virtual Market 5
|December 18, 2020 to January 10, 2021
|WorldBeyond
|-
|Virtual Market 6
|August 14 to 28, 2021
|World Festi-VR
|-
|Virtual Market 2021
|December 4 to 19, 2021
|メタバース・シティ
|-
|Virtual Market 2022 Summer
|August 13 to 28, 2022
|（0,0,0） 原点-Origin
|-
|Virtual Market 2022 Winter
|December 3 to 18, 2022
|Next Journey
|-
|Virtual Market 2023 Summer
|July 15 to 30, 2023
|CONNECT
|-
|Virtual Market 2023 Winter
|December 2 to 17, 2023
|CONNECT
|-
|Virtual Market 2024 Summer
|July 20 to August 4, 2024
|Boundless!
|-
|Virtual Market 2024 Winter
|December 7 to 22, 2024
|Boundless!
|-
|Virtual Market 2025 Summer
|July 12 to 27, 2025
|鍵と扉（鍵）
|-
|Virtual Market 2025 Winter
|December 6 to 21, 2025
|鍵と扉（扉）
|}

== Related events for Virtual Market ==

=== GameVket ===
A virtual exhibition event for indie games held in a virtual space. It's a new type of game event utilizing virtual space, where attendees can explore a vibrant venue showcasing diverse indie games while interacting with exhibitors in real time.
Both exhibiting and admission are free, and no specialized VR knowledge is required to participate. The inaugural event, titled “GameVketZero,” ran for seven days from April 29 to May 5, 2021.
=== ComicVket ===
Amidst the pandemic, as various events were canceled, ComicVket was born in March 2020 from a strong conviction that we must not let doujinshi creators lose their platform for expression. It is a virtual doujinshi convention event attracting over 100,000 attendees from around the world. ComicVket1 ran for four days from August 13 to 16, 2020. ComicVket2 ran for nine days from November 6 to 14, 2021.

=== MusicVket ===
Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, with numerous events canceled, this virtual music exhibition and sales event was born out of a strong conviction that indie music creators must not lose their platforms for presentation, and in response to user requests for “a music-themed virtual event.” “MusicVket1” ran for four days from August 13 to 16, 2020, featuring 127 participating circles and recording a total attendance of 80,000 visitors. ‘MusicVket2’ ran for five days from March 6 to 10, 2021, and “MusicVket3” ran for nine days from November 6 to 14, 2021.

=== VketMall ===
Born from the world's largest VR event, “Virtual Market,” this is a permanent, comprehensive shopping mall. Unlike the regular “Virtual Market,” there's no need to build your own booth from scratch. Instead, you choose an exhibition space from a selection of pre-made shops and can display a single item. Its defining feature is significantly lowering the barrier to entry, making it easy to showcase your work to the world.

=== VketReal ===
VketReal creates a “pararal” space—where virtual and real coexist and merge—in actual towns, enabling interaction and experiences while engaging with avatar culture and cutting-edge XR technology.

It features a visitor attraction model not centered on IP, celebrities, or advertising. Instead, individual creators, communities, companies, and even attendees themselves become “content,” building events where virtual and real spaces merge into places for play.

Starting from a base of core users, VketReal has grown immensely popular with families, travelers, couples, and even casual passersby, evolving into a new phenomenon where virtual culture naturally blends into the city.
{| class="wikitable"
|+
!Event Name
!Date of Event
!Venue
|-
|Virtual Market 2023 Real in Akiba
|July 29 to 30, 2023
|Bellesalle Akihabara
|-
|Virtual Market 2023 Real in Shibuhara
|December 16 to 17, 2023
|Bellesalle Akihabara / Takeshita Street (Harajyuku) /  Shibuya Sakura Stage (Shibuya)
|-
|VketReal 2024 Summer
|August 3 to 4, 2024
|Bellesalle Akihabara /  Shibuya Sakura Stage (Shibuya) / Namba Midosuji Hall (Osaka)
|-
|VketReal 2024 Winter
|December 21 to 22, 2024
|Sunshine City (Ikebukuro)
|-
|VketReal 2025 Summer
|July 26 to 27, 2025
|Bellesalle Akihabara
|-
|VketReal 2025 Winter
|December 20 to 21, 2025
|Akihabara UDX
|}

=== "VRave"（ヴレイヴ） ===
On July 30, 2023, the music live event “VRave” was held at Akihabara Entas. This live event featured artists active in VR and also served as a prelude to the music-focused VR event “MusicVket 5,” scheduled for August.

Starting with DJ [https://twitter.com/kgtr0610_vrchat Kagetora], the lineup featured diverse genres. idol unit “[https://twitter.com/Suc_Suquel Suc×Suquel.]”, rock band “[https://twitter.com/LAUTRIV_ LAUTRIV]”, hip-hop unit “[https://twitter.com/CROWK_OFFICIAL CROWK]”, music unit “[https://twitter.com/VrcYss YSS]”, vocal duo ‘[https://x.com/AMOKA_info AMOKA]’, and blues rock band “JOHNNY HENRY”... Joined by VTuber [https://twitter.com/tmgnrei ChumuNote], a total of eight acts took the stage at Entas.

== Volunteer-led activities ==

===== VketReal in Sapporo =====
VketReal is a completely volunteer-run event organized by passionate users of VketReal, with [https://vrchat.com/home/user/usr_9ecddc22-5f86-4da2-8ee4-0e2197215487 A-kun] serving as its representative.

On Monday, July 21, 2025 (a national holiday), “[https://vris.jp/en/2025Summer VketReal in Sapporo]”  was held by a group of enthusiastic users. In addition to the Sapporo TV Tower venue, diverse events including talks, live performances, and DJ sessions were held, attracting over 1,000 participants in total. This success has further accelerated the movement to expand VketReal nationwide through user-led initiatives.

==== VketReal Unofficial Garage Developers（VRUGD） ====
[https://www.vrugd.jp VketReal Unofficial Garage Developers (VRUGD)] is a volunteer development team community formed by staff members within the VketReal volunteer staff team who voluntarily gather to develop the system.This community develops useful tools for enjoying the stamp rally app used at  “[https://vris.jp/en/2025Summer VketReal in Sapporo]” and the main VketReal event hosted by HIKKY Co., Ltd..

It continues to collaborate with various parties on development and is one of the noteworthy communities run by volunteers.

==Community resources==
* [https://vket.com/en/lp/2025Winter_real VketReal's official website] at ''vket.com''.
* [https://vket.com/en Virtual Market's official website] at ''vket.com''.
* [https://avatarmaker.vket.com/ Virtual Market's avatar maker] at ''avatarmaker.vket.com''.
* [https://hikky.co.jp/en HIKKY's official website] at ''hikky.co.jp''.
* [https://www.vrugd.jp VketReal Unofficial Garage Developers (VRUGD)] at vrugd.jp.
* [https://vris.jp/en/2025Summer VketReal in Sapporo's Official website] at v''ris.jp''.

==References==

[[Category:Events]]
[[Category:Music events]]
[[Category:Needs images]]
[[Category:English]]
[[Category:Japanese]]