{{Noticebox/Guidelines_translation}}
<languages/>
<translate>
<!--T:1-->
All content on the VRChat Wiki must be written from a neutral point of view (NPOV), which means representing fairly, proportionately, and, as far as possible, without editorial bias, all the significant views that have been published by reliable sources on a topic.

<!--T:2-->
NPOV is a fundamental principle of the VRChat Wiki, and is a major component to help determine the type and quality of material acceptable in the VRChat Wiki articles.
</translate>
<translate>
== Definitions == <!--T:3-->

<!--T:4-->
Achieving what the VRChat Wiki community understands as neutrality means carefully and critically analyzing a variety of reliable sources and then attempting to convey to the reader the information contained in them fairly, proportionately, and as far as possible without editorial bias. The aim is to inform, not influence.

<!--T:5-->
Editors, while naturally having their own points of view, should strive in good faith to provide complete information and not to promote one particular point of view over another. Neutrality does not mean excluding certain points of view; rather, it means including all verifiable points of view that have sufficient weight.
</translate>
<translate>
<!--T:6-->
* '''Avoid stating opinions as facts.''' Articles should contain information about significant opinions expressed about their subjects. However, these opinions should not be stated in the VRChat Wiki's voice. Instead, they should be attributed in the text to particular sources or, where justified, described as widespread views. For example, an article should not state that a VRChat world is the best but may state that a particular user has described it as highly popular.
</translate>
<translate>
<!--T:7-->
* '''Avoid stating seriously contested assertions as facts.''' If different reliable sources make conflicting assertions about a matter, treat these assertions as opinions rather than facts, and do not present them as direct statements.
</translate>
<translate>
<!--T:8-->
* '''Prefer nonjudgmental language.''' A neutral point of view neither sympathizes with nor disparages its subject (or what reliable sources say about the subject), although this must sometimes be balanced against clarity.

<!--T:9-->
Remember, the goal of the VRChat Wiki is to provide accurate, verifiable, and unbiased information about VRChat and its community. Flexibility is allowed, but all content should be as neutral and informative as possible.
</translate>
[[Category:VRCWiki policies{{#translation:}}]]
----
{{Navbox/Wiki_policies}}