{{Noticebox/Guidelines_translation}}
<languages/>
<translate>
<!--T:1-->
''<sup><big>(This page outlines different roles and responsibilities for users on the VRChat Wiki. For roles involving [[Special:MyLanguage/Groups|Groups]], please see [[Special:MyLanguage/Groups#Group_roles_and_permissions|Group roles and permissions]]).</big></sup>''

<!--T:2-->
There are several '''roles''' involved in the oversight and production of the VRChat Wiki. This article outlines each role, its responsibilities, qualifications, and expectations.

<!--T:3-->
== User permissions ==
Special roles can be granted to editors by unanimous decision of the VRChat Wiki team. These currently include automoderated users and proofreaders.

<!--T:4-->
=== Automoderated users ===
<tvar name="anchor">{{Anchor|Automoderated}}</tvar>
[[Special:ListUsers/automoderated|Automoderated users]] are those who have consistently contributed to the VRChat Wiki and demonstrated trustworthiness by following policies and guidelines. They have their edits automatically approved in the Official namespace (official VRChat information pages). Otherwise, automoderated users have no moderation capabilities or further Wiki responsibilities.

<!--T:5-->
==== Qualifications ====
To qualify as an automoderated user, one should be an active user on the VRChat Wiki for at least a week, with several quality contributions and no major infractions. A Maintainer may appoint automoderated users if other Maintainers have no reasonable objections.

<!--T:6-->
==== Responsibilities and expectations ====
Like all users, automoderated users must follow VRCWiki policies. Consistent policy violations or disregard for the [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]] may result in temporary revocation of privileges.

<!--T:7-->
=== Proofreaders ===
<tvar name="anchor">{{Anchor|Proofreader|Proofreaders}}</tvar>
[[Special:ListUsers/automoderated|Proofreaders]] focus on translation efforts for articles not in English, and guide other editors in localizing articles.

<!--T:8-->
==== Qualifications ====
The proofreader role is assigned if the user holds the "Proofreader" role on VRChat’s [[Special:MyLanguage/Discord servers#VRChat Localization|Localization community]] for [https://docs.vrchat.com/docs/suggesting-localization-changes Crowdin]. New proofreaders may also be chosen after consistently publishing quality edits for their known language(s).

<!--T:9-->
==== Responsibilities and expectations ====
Like all users, proofreaders must follow VRCWiki policies. Translations should be accurate and based on the English version of the article while continuing to follow the [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]]. Once an article is marked ready for translation, a proofreader may translate the assigned pages.

<!--T:10-->
If a page is not yet marked ready for translation, proofreaders should help improve the English article first.

<!--T:11-->
== VRChat Wiki team ==
<tvar name="anchor">{{Anchor|Team}}</tvar>
The VRChat [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Team|Wiki team]] members are volunteers assigned by the VRChat Wiki administrators (VRChat developers) to help oversee and maintain the VRChat Wiki.

<!--T:12-->
=== Maintainers ===
<tvar name="anchor">{{Anchor|Maintainer|Maintainers}}</tvar>
[[Special:ListUsers/community-mod|Maintainers]] carry significant responsibility in overseeing the VRChat Wiki as part of the VRChat Wiki team.

<!--T:13-->
==== Qualifications ====
Maintainers may nominate users for the Maintainer role. Nominees must demonstrate consistent, active involvement in the VRChat Wiki through contributions and discussions on Talk pages or community forums, and be present in the [[Special:MyLanguage/Discord servers|VRChat Wiki Discord server]] to collaborate with the VRCWiki team.

<!--T:14-->
They must show dedication to policies, trustworthiness, and have no major infractions or substantial objections from the current VRChat Wiki team. VRChat Wiki administrators can veto any new Maintainer.

<!--T:15-->
==== Responsibilities and expectations ====
Maintainers can add, edit, delete, and protect pages in most content spaces. They can approve, reject, or modify edits that require moderation. Maintainers help resolve minor [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Guidelines#Personal conduct, and disputes|disputes]] between users on Talk pages and can roll back or revert user edits.

<!--T:16-->
They may also moderate users for [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Disciplinary_policy|misconduct]]. Maintainers participate in decision-making on Wiki policies and nominate candidates for automoderated user, proofreader, and maintainer roles.

<!--T:17-->
Maintainers should stay reasonably active in both contributions and moderation. They are expected to attend and contribute to meetings when possible. Abuse of privileges or disregard for policies can lead to removal from the team, finalized by Wiki administrators.

<!--T:18-->
This is a volunteer position with no strict quotas. However, after about two months of inactivity or an unannounced absence, a Maintainer may be contacted by an Organizer to confirm their continued interest. If there is no response or no change in activity within two weeks, they may be removed. Former maintainers can request to return if there are no major objections, unless vetoed by a Wiki Administrator.

<!--T:19-->
=== Organizers ===
<tvar name="anchor">{{Anchor|Organizer|Organizers}}</tvar>
Organizers are Maintainers who have extensive MediaWiki experience and have been entrusted with greater responsibility. They share equal decision-making leverage with Maintainers but have additional tasks.

<!--T:20-->
==== Qualifications ====
Candidates must show consistent, active involvement in VRChat Wiki discussions and policy formation. They should have no major infractions and no strong objections from the VRChat Wiki team. Ideally, three to five users hold the Organizer role at once for balanced effectiveness.

<!--T:25-->
When Organizer positions open, a formal call is made for applications with a two-week deadline. Maintainers can nominate themselves by creating a discussion topic explaining why they qualify. All Maintainers/Organizers may comment and vote (thumbs up/down) on each nomination. After the deadline, votes are tallied by subtracting thumbs down from thumbs up. Applicants with the most support fill the available positions. Ties may be resolved through Organizer/VRC Staff consensus. VRC Staff can veto any candidate at their discretion.

<!--T:21-->
==== Responsibilities and expectations ====
Organizers act as liaisons between the volunteer Wiki team and Wiki administration. They organize, attend, and monitor meetings and discussions, resolve disputes within the team, and manage the VRChat Wiki team by checking in with inactive Maintainers or sanctioning them if needed. They also perform administrative functions delegated to them.

<!--T:22-->
Organizers should be reasonably active in Wiki contributions, discussions, and meetings. They resolve disputes and serve as communication links between the VRChat Wiki team and Wiki administration.

<!--T:23-->
They are volunteers with no strict quotas, but because of their added responsibilities, they should be more involved than Maintainers. Abuse of privileges or refusal to follow guidelines can result in removal from the team, finalized by Wiki administrators.

<!--T:24-->
== See also ==
* [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Team|VRCWiki:Team]]
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Discord servers|VRChat Discord servers]]
</translate>

[[Category:VRCWiki policies{{#translation:}}]]