{{Noticebox/Community}}
{{Infobox/World
|name=Treehouse In the Shade
|image=VRC-marketing-treehouse.png
|developers=1001, SCRN
|author=[https://vrchat.com/home/user/usr_30eb927e-0a00-4d52-ab39-df95112f2460 1001]
|capacity= 36 (18)
|platforms=PC
|tags=hangout, chill, fractals
|id=wrld_551c30cb-0e56-4c69-9176-10e259a89e2a
|published=Nov 9, 2018
}}

'''Treehouse in the Shade''' is a PC-only community [[Special:MyLanguage/Worlds|world]] created by 1001 in 2018. It is well-known for being used in the [[VRChat]] trailer and much of VRChat's main marketing imagery.

==About the world==

Treehouse in the Shade is a world created by 1001 and SCRN to demonstrate the power of shaders in Unity. It consists of a treehouse in the middle of what appears to be a waving sea of grass. Upstairs there is a roaring fireplace and a large control panel, which allows users to select from dozens of shaders, which are then displayed all around the treehouse. Some of the selections are fractals, which are rendered by raymarching shaders.

As one of VRChat's first shader showcase worlds, in January 2019, journalist Ryan Schultz wrote an article about the world, including many images and videos about the world's features.<ref>. Schultz, Ryan. “[https://ryanschultz.com/2019/01/07/vrchat-pick-of-the-day-treehouse-in-the-shade/ VRChat Pick of the Day: Treehouse in the Shade].” 7 Jan. 2019.</ref> The world was also covered by XR magazine ''Everything Immersive''.<ref>Fionna. “[https://everythingimmersive.com/events/treehouse-in-the-shade Treehouse in the Shade].” EverythingImmersive, 29 Mar. 2023.</ref>

==Passing of 1001==

One of the world's creators, 1001, passed away in early 2020.<ref>Schultz, Ryan. “[https://ryanschultz.com/2020/02/28/the-vrchat-community-mourns-the-loss-of-1001-creator-of-treehouse-in-the-shade-and-many-other-innovative-worlds The VRChat Community Mourns the Loss of 1001, Creator of Treehouse in the Shade and Many Other Innovative Worlds]” 28 Feb. 2020.</ref> In an official blog post posted to Medium, VRChat staff responded to 1001's death:

{{Quote|I can’t tell you how many people I took to that world. I spent a lot of good times there with friends, family, streamers, VRChat team, partner companies, and famous people. Deadmau5 hung out there with me a few times. One of his streams is 1001, mau5 and myself hanging out and talking about the world, flying around on the jetpacks, and chatting about maybe getting some of 1001’s shaders onto the mau5cube. I took investors and various VIPs in to see worlds he and SCRN had worked on. Everyone that saw it had the same reaction — they were blown away, and it would leave a lasting impression. It showed them what was possible. We even chose to use Treehouse in the Shade in our trailer and in our main marketing images.

I hope you will take a little time to go explore worlds he had a hand in creating with his close friend and creative partner SCRN.|Ron Millar, VRChat Chief Creative Officer<ref>Millar, Ron. “[https://medium.com/vrchat/remembering-1001-973ac391c4df Remembering 1001]” Tupper. Medium, 13 Dec. 2021.</ref>}}

==References==

<references />