{{Noticebox/wip|More changes for 2024, and perhaps missed changes need to be added.}}

This page serves to document notable changes made to the [[VRCWiki:About|VRChat Wiki]]. Types of changes to expect here are changes to; wiki polices and [[VRCWiki:Guidelines|guidelines]], extensions, MediaWiki, VRCWiki team, and more. The changes are listed in reverse chronological order.

== 2026 ==
* '''{{#timel:F d|February 26, 2026}}''': Added [[User:Usr_adbb8876-cc64-48a6-adf5-8ee651bc98f4|French Fox]] as a Maintainer after a successful vote.

== 2025 ==

* '''{{#timel:F d|August 5, 2025}}''': Added [[User:Usr_3f2b93b8-ef3b-4969-b4fd-082903e02120|AcarajéNordestino]] as a Maintainer after a successful vote.
* '''{{#timel:F d|August 4, 2025}}''': Added the [[VRCWiki:Guidelines#User_pages|User page policy]], mainly for moderation purposes.
* '''{{#timel:F d|June 20, 2025}}''': Added the [https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Skin:Citizen Citizen] skin.
* '''{{#timel:F d|June 17, 2025}}''': [https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/MediaWiki MediaWiki] has been updated to v1.43 from v1.39.
* '''{{#timel:F d|May 29, 2025}}''': The [https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:Moderation Moderation] extension has been removed, allowing any user to edit any page freely.
* '''{{#timel:F d|May 29, 2025}}''': Added vcc:// ([[VRChat Creator Companion]] links) as an allowed link protocol.
* '''{{#timel:F d|April 6, 2025}}''': Added [[User:Usr_746d9294-8fa9-42df-bb0b-7fdbf0def3f3|雨可韓韓 Yucohanhan]] as a Maintainer after a successful vote.
* '''{{#timel:F d|March 19, 2025}}''': Added [[User:Usr_578aa632-439b-4c41-9266-776323ba9ad2|Aries']] and [[User:Usr_c272d4fe-f1f8-4d77-8008-cad6cb81d6cd|TrixxedHeart]] as Organizers after a successful vote.
* '''{{#timel:F d|January 12, 2025}}''': Implemented the [[VRCWiki:Backseat moderation|Backseat moderation policy]], after a successful vote.

== 2024 ==
* '''{{#timel:F d|December 5, 2024}}''': Added the [https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:TitleKey TitleKey] extension.
* '''{{#timel:F d|December 5, 2024}}''': Added the Guides namespace.
* '''{{#timel:F d|October 17, 2024}}''': Added the [https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:TemplateData TemplateData] extension.
* '''{{#timel:F d|October 11, 2024}}''': Added the [https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:TimedMediaHandler TimedMediaHandler] extension.
* '''{{#timel:F d|October 8, 2024}}''': Re-wrote the [[VRCWiki:Conflicts of interest|Conflicts of Interest]] policy after several months of discussion.
* '''{{#timel:F d|August 23, 2024}}''': Added the [https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:Echo Echo], [https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:DiscussionTools DiscussionTools] and [https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:Linter Linter] extensions.
* '''{{#timel:F d|August 19, 2024}}''': Added the [https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/MediaWiki_Language_Extension_Bundle MediaWiki Language Extension Bundle].
* '''{{#timel:F d|August 15, 2024}}''': Added the [https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:Popups Popups] extension.
* '''{{#timel:F d|August 6, 2024}}''': Added the [https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:Description2 Description2] and [https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:OpenGraphMeta OpenGraphMeta] extensions.
* '''{{#timel:F d|August 1, 2024}}''': [[VRChat Wiki]] is officially launched.
* '''{{#timel:F d|May 28, 2024}}''': VRChat opens up [[VRChat Wiki]] internally to volunteers (known now as [[VRCWiki:Roles#Maintainers|maintainers]]).