Do not make personal attacks anywhere on The VRC Wiki. Comment on content, not on the contributor. Personal attacks harm the VRCWiki community and the collaborative atmosphere needed to create a good encyclopedia. Derogatory comments about other editors may be removed by any editor. Repeated or egregious personal attacks may lead to sanctions including blocks or even bans.

==What is considered to be a personal attack?==

There is no rule that is objective and not open to interpretation on what constitutes a personal attack as opposed to constructive discussion, but some types of comments are never acceptable:

* Abusive, defamatory, or derogatory phrases based on race, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, age, religious or political beliefs, disability, ethnicity, nationality, etc. directed against another editor or a group of editors. Disagreement over what constitutes a religion, race, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability or ethnicity is not a legitimate excuse.
* Using someone's affiliations as an ad hominem means of dismissing or discrediting their views—regardless of whether said affiliations are mainstream. An example could be, "You're a railfan so what would you know about fashion?" Note that it is not a personal attack to question an editor about their possible conflict of interest on a specific article or topic; but beware – speculating on the real-life identity of another editor may constitute outing.
* Using someone's political affiliations as an ad hominem means of dismissing or discrediting their views, such as accusing them of being left-wing or right-wing, is also forbidden. Editors are allowed to have personal political POV, as long as it does not negatively affect their editing and discussions.
* Linking to external attacks, harassment, or other material, for the purpose of attacking another editor.
* Accusations about personal behavior that lack evidence. Serious accusations require serious evidence, usually in the form of diffs and links.
* Threats, including, but not limited to:
** Threats of legal action
** Threats of violence or other off-wiki action (particularly death threats)
** Threats or actions which deliberately expose other VRChat Wiki editors to political, religious or other persecution by a government, their employer, or any others. 

Violations of this sort may result in a block for an extended period of time, which may be applied immediately by any [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWIki:Wiki Moderators|Wiki Maintainer or Admin]].

These examples are not exhaustive. Insulting or disparaging an editor is a personal attack regardless of the manner in which it is done. When in doubt, comment on the article's content without referring to its contributor at all.