{{Noticebox/Community}}
{{Infobox/World
|name=Strange Pear Gallery of Fine Arts
|author=Oz Pearsall
|platforms=PC
|id=wrld_4434d5df-75ca-4b41-a0ff-201836ef02e7
}}
The '''Strange Pear Gallery of Fine Arts''' is a community-run virtual art gallery in [[Special:MyLanguage/VRChat|VRChat]], created by Oz Pearsall. It operates similarly to a physical small-town art gallery, allowing artists to submit and sell their work while keeping all proceeds from sales. Pearsall, a gouache painter, has been credited with helping to repopularize physical painting commissions of virtual avatars.<ref name="immersivism-history">[https://www.immersivism.com/history "History"] on ''Immersivism''. Retrieved April 8, 2026.</ref>

== History ==
The Strange Pear Gallery was founded in September 2022, originally housed within VRU, a VRChat world created by TheCastle. The gallery later moved to its own dedicated world. Over time it grew into a regular gathering point for the VRChat art community, described as one of several "virtual salons for users to attend and share work with."<ref name="immersivism-history" />

In October 2025, the gallery participated in the VRChat [[Special:MyLanguage/Group Fair|Group Fair]], hosting open-house events across multiple days of the event.

On April 8, 2026, VRChat announced a collaboration between the Strange Pear Gallery and [[Special:MyLanguage/Space Jam|Space Jam]].<ref>[https://bsky.app/profile/vrchat.com/post/3miyuvcb5f22n VRChat announcement] on ''Bluesky''. Dated April 8, 2026. Retrieved April 8, 2026.</ref> The contest invites fine art submissions through the Strange Pear Discord, with selected works to be featured in a digital fine arts gallery hosted in VRChat. Submissions are open until May 1, 2026.

== Overview ==
The gallery hosts regular community events, including monthly gallery openings with live music, weekly open-house events, art workshops, and occasional special events. Artists aged 18 and over may submit work by joining the gallery's Discord server. The gallery does not display NFTs or AI-generated images (with some cleared exceptions).

== Immersivism ==
On August 3, 2024, K. Guillory of ''The MetaCulture'' gave a presentation at the Strange Pear Gallery on the history of fine art depicting virtual worlds, hosted by Oz Pearsall.<ref>[https://www.themetaculture.co/youre-invited-to-an-art-party/ "You're Invited To An Art Party"] on ''The MetaCulture''. Retrieved April 8, 2026.</ref> The event was followed by a community discussion and public poll to name the emerging art movement. Nineteen name suggestions were compiled by artists at the gallery, and on August 16, 2024, "Immersivism" won by a wide margin. '''Immersivism''' is defined as the practice of depicting people, places, and ideas in or of virtual worlds through fine art.<ref>[https://www.themetaculture.co/and-the-winner-is/ "And The Winner Is..."] on ''The MetaCulture''. Retrieved April 8, 2026.</ref>

The term independently echoed earlier work by artist Bryn Oh, who had predicted in 2020 that the word "Immersivist" would be used by virtual artists.<ref name="immersivism-history" />

== External links ==
* [https://www.ozpearsall.art/strange-pear Strange Pear Gallery of Fine Arts] at ''ozpearsall.art''
* [https://vrchat.com/home/group/grp_36750235-eb7f-418b-981a-643309a68bf7 Strange Pear Gallery] VRChat Group

== See also ==
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Space Jam 2026|Space Jam 2026]]
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Group Fair|Group Fair]]

== References ==
<references />

[[Category:Worlds]]
[[Category:Needs images{{#translation:}}]]