{{Noticebox/Community}}
{{Stub|Not much information here! Please expand and proofread in reference to the [[VRCWiki:Manual_of_Style|Manual of Style]].}}{{Noticebox/wip}}

'''Anime culture in VRChat''' is largely defined on the VRChat community. Anime (Japanese: アニメ) is an animation style, originating in Japan and parts of east Asia, in the 20th century. Similar characteristics for anime character designs, can also be found externally in manga (comics), light novels, movies, video games, [[Avatars|avatars]], and [[Worlds|worlds]].

==History==

Anime traces back to Japan and eastern Asia. Modern animation techniques in this region, dates back to the early 1900s. Predating animation in this region, were "[[Wikipedia:emakimono|emakimono]]", or illustrated handscrolls, going as far back as the Nara period (8th century)<ref>Novielli, Maria Roberta (2018). Floating worlds: a short history of Japanese animation (https://www.worldcat.org/oclc/1020690005). Boca Raton. ISBN (https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISBN_(identifier)) 978-1-351-33482-2 (https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-1-351-33482-2). OCLC (https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/OCLC_(identifier)) 1020690005 (https://search.worldcat.org/oclc/1020690005)</ref>.

Earlier adaptations of anime was exampled by legendary manga artist [[Wikipedia:Osamu Tezuka|Osamu Tezuka]], who worked on [[Wikipedia:List_of_Osamu_Tezuka_manga|several manga productions]] starting in the 1950s, such as Astro Boy, Kimba the White Lion, Dororo, and others. Most of his works originated in manga format, before eventually were worked on in [[Wikipedia:List_of_Osamu_Tezuka_anime|animated]] form. Jungle Emperor Leo, localized in English as ''Kimba the White Lion'' was the first animated series from Japan in full color<ref>[https://www.dvdtalk.com/reviews/6233/kimba-boxed-set/]</ref><ref name=neuvieme>[http://neuviemeart.citebd.org/spip.php?article239]</ref>.

Tezuka remains as a shining inspiration for influential manga and anime artists, and studios. Creators such as Akira Toriyama, who worked on Dragon Ball and Dragon Quest; Hayao Miyazaki of Studio Ghibli, creator of My Neighbor Totoro, Spirited Away.

==Characteristics and style==

Anime has a distinct usage of enmanata and iconography to express emotion in characters. Characters are also often expressed with having large and saturated eyes and hair.

==Anime and VRChat==

Many, if not all, of the anime listed under the History heading are represented in VRChat in some way, shape, or form; whether it's through an avatar, a group, or referenced in a VRChat world. Around the time that VRChat was booming in popularity, [[wikipedia:VTuber|virtual streamers]] using anime-styled appearances, such as [[wikipedia:Kizuna_AI|Kizuna AI]] were already mainstream. Another example of a popular anime virtual performer is [[wikipedia:Hatsune_Miku|Hatsune Miku]], using from Vocaloid software, which synthesizes speech into performing songs. <!-- Similarly, UTAU -->

==References==

[[Category:Needs images]]
[[Category:Culture]]