{{Noticebox/Community}}
{{Stub}}

'''Furality Online Xperience''' (F.O.X.), or just '''Furality''', is a virtual [[Community:Furry culture in VRChat|furry]] [[Wikipedia:Furry_convention|convention]] partnered with, and held within [[VRChat]], beginning in 2020<ref>[https://furality.org/about 'About F.O.X.'] on ''furality.org''; retrieved May 30, 2025.</ref>. Furality Online Xperience is hosted by Furality, Inc.<ref>[https://furality.org/org 'Nonprofit Information'] on ''furality.org''; retrieved May 30, 2025.</ref>, a [[Wikipedia:501(c)(3)_organization|501(c)(3) organization]] based in Florida, USA.

==Overview==
Furality is a furry convention within VRChat, that has hosted multiple venues within VRChat since its inception in May 2020.

The convention requires registration on its [https://furality.org/register website], and a [[VRChat account]] to attend. Furality venues are generally hosted between two to three days, and include different [[Worlds|worlds]] and [[Instances|instances]] for panels, meetups, performances, a club world (Club F.Y.N.N) for [[Community:Music culture in VRChat|DJ performances]], and a "Dealer's Den" - a vendor world, featuring booths from creators.

Furality Online Xperience was the first VR-only furry convention, without any pre-existing foundation to an in-person furry convention. Despite not hosting traditional furry convention venues in person, Furality supersedes attendance records for both in-person furry conventions<ref>[https://en.wikifur.com/wiki/List_of_in-person_furry_conventions_by_attendance 'List of in-person furry conventions by attendance'] on ''en.wikifur.com''; retrieved May 30, 2025.</ref>, and online furry conventions<ref>[https://en.wikifur.com/wiki/List_of_online_furry_conventions_by_attendance 'List of online furry conventions by attendance'] on ''en.wikifur.com''; retrieved May 30, 2025.</ref>

Occasionally, Furality will set up a "Furality Gateway" portal, offering a two-way portal livestream between a world in VRChat, and a furry venue in real life.

==Events==
Furality's first event began as '''Furality 2020'''<ref>[https://past.furality.org/ 'F.O.X. Archive'] at ''past.furality.org''; retrieved May 30, 2025.</ref> on May 22-24, 2020 with a total of 2,692 attendees. The latest event was '''Furality Somna''', hosted on June 5-8, 2025. Each full convention has raised money for a charity. Furality have permanently released VRChat worlds themed after each convention for general use after the convention concludes.
<!-- TABLE PULLED FROM https://en.wikifur.com/w/index.php?title=Furality_Online_Xperience | ~DAG-XR; May 30, 2025 -->
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! # !! Event Name !! Dates of Convention !! Theme !! World !! Attendance !! Amount Raised (USD) & Charity !! Notes
|-
| 1 || Furality Online Xperience 2020 || May 22-24, 2020 || Cyberpunk/Retro || F.O.X. Event Room || 2,692 || $8,646 [https://www.saveafox.org/ SaveAFox Rescue] ||
|-
| 2 || Furality 2000 || Nov 6-8, 2020 || 2000's/Y2K Aesthetic || DIX-E || 3,120 || $5,846 [https://www.saveafox.org/ SaveAFox Rescue] || First furry convention to Event Partner with VRChat
|-
| 3 || Furality Luma || June 4-6, 2021 || Bioluminescent Forest || Crystal Forest || 6,829 || $14,649 [https://www.saveafox.org/ SaveAFox Rescue] || 
|-
| 4 || Furality Legends || Nov 5-7, 2021 || Super Hero/Villain || Legend City || 9,024 || $14,976 [https://www.saveafox.org/ SaveAFox Rescue] || 
|-
| 5 || Furality Aqua || June 17-19, 2022 || Aquatic/Underwater || Oceans of Luma || 15,079 || $22,638 [https://www.saveafox.org/ SaveAFox Rescue] || 
|-
| 5a || Furality Luma Festival || Feb 17-18, 2023 || Bioluminescent Forest || Luma Falls || 11,806 || N/A || This was a mini 30-hour event/music festival and not a full-scale convention.
|-
| 6 || Furality Sylva || June 2-4, 2023 || Tropical Rainforest || Isle of Sylva || 15,160 || $17,811 [https://www.eqfl.org/ Equality Florida Institute, Inc.] ||
|-
| 7 || Furality Umbra || June 6-9, 2024 || Sci-Fi Desert Settlement || Crevice Village || 21,004 || $42,269 [https://thecenterorlando.org/ The Center Orlando] || The largest virtual furry convention to date
|-
| 8 || Furality Somna || June 5-9, 2025 || Dreams || TBA || 26,405 || $109,000 [https://thecenterorlando.org/ The Center Orlando] ||
|}

==Community resources==
* [https://furality.org Furality's official website] at ''furality.org

==See also==
* [[Community:Furry culture in VRChat]]

==References==

[[Category:Needs images]]
[[Category:Events]]
[[Category:Music events]]