{{Noticebox/Community}}
{{Stub|This page is not yet complete! You can [[VRCWiki:How to Contribute|contribute]] by expanding and proofreading, in accordance with the [[VRCWiki:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]].}}
{{Infobox/World
|name=Hearthwood
|image=Hearthwood thumb.webp
|author=~Sam
|capacity= 40
|platforms=PC, Android
|tags=snowy, warm, chill, cabin, fire
|id=wrld_71eca28e-ee80-400c-9b53-dddc55c93124
|labs=December 6, 2024
|published=December 6, 2024
}}
{{Quote|''"A warm winter cabin at night in the snow with YouTube search‚ ‚ video player‚ mirrors and pens"''}}

'''Hearthwood''' is a cross-platform [[Worlds|world]], taking place inside of a three-story log cabin. Hearthwood was created by ''~Sam'' on December 6, 2024.

==Overview==
Users spawn on the second floor of the cabin. This cabin is lit up by a fireplace, candles, table lamps, and a Christmas tree. Pillows, blankets, lit candles, and Christmas decorations are spread throughout the cabin. The second floor features a living room and fireplace, kitchenette, and a breakfast nook that has been converted into a bedspace. Interactive prefabs include pens, and a video player.

The third floor is accessible by a staircase that oversees the living room on the second floor. The third floor has another bedspace with a mirror and a lounge area with a larger video player. There is also a ladder that leads up to a hammock with another mirror close to the tapered ceiling.

The first floor can also be accessed via staircase, and leads into a VIP area. Going outside of the log cabin is not accessible, and has heavy snowfall on its terrain. Peering outside of the windows, shows that there is a balcony connected to the house. There are hills, deep snow, pine trees, street lamps, and a distant town, with houses gathered in a circle, and a towering lit-up Christmas tree at its center.

==Trivia==
* Hearthwood was showcased on VRChat's [[Developer Update]] from December 12, 2024.

[[Category:Worlds]]
[[Category:Needs images]]