{{Noticebox/Community}}{{stub|Not much information here! You can [[VRCWiki:How to Contribute|contribute]] by expanding and proofreading this article, in accordance with the [[VRCWiki:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]].}}

'''Sleeping culture in VRChat''' is described as a culture of users, deliberate or unintentional periods of sleeping, taking naps, or resting within VRChat.

== Overview ==
[[Special:MyLanguage/VRChat|VRChat]] is a desireable platform, for the comfort that it can bring to users. There are many [[Special:MyLanguage/Settings|comfort and safety preferences]] that the user can choose to improve their experience. Some users can choose to use VRChat while laying down, utilizing [[Special:MyLanguage/Horizon Adjust|Horizon Adjust]] to adjust their avatar upright while laying down.

Aside from settings and preferences, VRChat can also be comforting for users in an aesthetic and emotional sense, allowing the user to choose their own [[Special:MyLanguage/Avatars|avatar]], [[Special:MyLanguage/Worlds|environment]], [[Special:MyLanguage/Social|status, and friends]] to relax with. With these factors, some users may intentionally or unintentionally nap, or sleep within VRChat.

== Sleeping in VR ==
There are multiple worlds that contain low-light, calming music, and comfortable furniture - such as a bed, that users may find inviting to sleep on. VRChat's [[Special:MyLanguage/Quick Menu|Quick Menu]] offers a setting to adjust brightness coming from your screen, to decrease light pollution, and some VR headsets have system settings or overlays<ref>[https://www.roadtovr.com/steam-vr-sleep-software-oyasumi/ "This Steam Add-on Aims to Make It Easier to Sleep in VR"] published by ''Scott Hayden'' at ''[https://roadtovr.com roadtovr.com]'' on September 13, 2023. Retrieved January 13, 2026.</ref> that have 'blue light reduction' settings, which can improve a user's sleep.

While sleeping with a VR headset on may prove difficult for some, others may find it easier. Other factors, are the variety of VR headsets available, which come in different shapes, sizes, weight, and also the addition of comfort accessories. Sleeping in virtual reality might not be for everyone, but [https://hello.vrchat.com/community-guideliness respecting the space of another user] who is sleeping is still important.

==See also==
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Settings|Settings]]
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Worlds|Worlds]]
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Social|Social]]
* [[Community:Culture]]

==References==
<references />
[[Category:Culture]]
[[Category:Needs images]]