{{Noticebox/Community}}
{{Infobox/World
|name=VRBricks
|image=VRBricks_thumbnail.png
|author=Yuiko
|platforms=PC, Android
|tags=create, build, sandbox
|id=wrld_94028898-f92c-4565-9900-4a676d1bad77
|labs=July 26, 2024
|published=Jul 27 2024
}}
'''VRBricks''' is a LEGO® styled brick building sandbox [[Special:MyLanguage/Worlds|world]], allowing you to create structures together with others that snap together like plastic bricks. There are currently 200+ brick types, 20+ colors, a 128x128 grid build space, and options to undo/redo and save/load. To the right of the spawn on the edge is a [[Special:MyLanguage/Mirrors|mirror]] as well as a couple brick removal tools.

The world was featured as a Spotlight: Cross-Platform world beginning in July 2024.
== Layout ==
The world is a single large outdoor space, styled after a large table with a grid platform to build on in the center. The spawn in the corner includes an information panel that prompts the user to select a dominant hand and day/night setting and explains the basics of how to use the world.
== Usage ==
The primary focus of the world is as a sandbox-building environment. The user's dominant hand casts a ray that is used for interacting with the world to place, remove, and color bricks. The user's non-dominant hand when turned upwards features a button that when interacted with by the dominant hand, opens a menu. This menu is used to select brick types and colors to place, a recolor tool, a removal tool, a save/load system, a flight button, undo/redo, and various other settings and controls.

Brick options resemble various styles of LEGO® bricks, and are categorized by type. There are also a few special bricks that can be placed to create [[Special:MyLanguage/Video_Players|video player]] controls, video screens, speakers, mirrors, and light sources.

== Resources ==
[https://x.com/VRChat/status/1817984901855199298 Official VRChat on X post featuring the world]