{{Noticebox/Community}}
{{Infobox/World
|name=VRDancing
|image=VRDancing_Thumbnail.png
|developers=Mixieǃ, Chatmans
|author=Mixieǃ
|platforms=PC
|tags=game, fitness, dance, avatar, workout
|id=wrld_42377cf1-c54f-45ed-8996-5875b0573a83
|labs=Jun 11, 2021
|published=Jun 14 2021
}}
'''VRDancing''' is an advanced dancing studio [[Special:MyLanguage/Worlds|world]] featuring a plethora of functionalities, tailored for both beginner and seasoned dancers. Dancers can be found at any time in public instances. The VRDancing community hosts a variety of events, including charity drives and dance sessions. It was created by Mixieǃ in 2021.

==Features==
===User-friendly database===
Offers a sortable, searchable, and filterable database of dance choreography to find dances that match interest or skill level.
===Playlists===
Dancers can create, export, and import playlists, allowing them to quickly set up preferred sequences for sessions, facilitating an uninterrupted dance experience
===Dynamic dancefloor===
The dance floor dynamically adjusts in size according to the number of participants, and the video player's position changes based on the dancers' locations, providing an optimized space for every event.
===Queue system===
This feature allows users to queue videos for dance sessions with options for access restrictions, queue capping, vote skipping, and prevention of duplicate video entries.
===Event hosting tools ===
Features like intercom communication and crowd control functionalities are integrated to ensure events run smoothly, alongside secure access restrictions to maintain safety.
=== Advanced camera systems===
An advanced programmable camera system with customizable angles and transitions enhances the recording and streaming of dances, catering to both personal and professional use.
===Low-latency video player===
Ideal for sync with dance partners, even over varying network conditions.
===Progression system===
VRDancing incorporates a unique Discord-based progression system where participants can earn experience points (XP) through various activities such as attending weekend sessions and open sessions, and by participating in dance instruction and video events. This system encourages community engagement and personal growth in dance skills, providing tangible milestones and rewards for active community members.

==Community==
VRDancing is a beginner-friendly community of dancers that hosts weekly dance, fitness, and hangout events in the EU, NA, and AP time zones. No Full Body Tracking is required, making it accessible to a wide range of participants, from complete beginners to experienced dancers.

== Credits ==
The development of VRDancing is a collaborative effort involving multiple contributors focused on design, infrastructure, and maintaining the song database.
* Chatmans: 3D Design and Modeling.
*Silentt: Manages CDN/Infrastructure.

==Resources==
*[https://vrchat.com/home/group/grp_d960be54-cfc2-44cb-863d-6d624d8975c1 VRChat Group] - VRD.9523
*[https://database.vrdancing.club/ Dance Choreography Database]
*[https://www.vrdancing.club/ VRDancing Website] at vrdancing.club
*[https://www.youtube.com/shorts/j_8SKXxesJk Dance with friends in VRChat!] posted by VRChat, on YouTube

[[Category:Sport]]