<languages/>
{{Noticebox/Official}} Los '''baneos''' son acciones de moderación que implican la suspensión o eliminación de un usuario o cuenta de un espacio.

 ==Grupo de baneos==
 La administración de un [[Special:MyLanguage/Groups|grupo]] de VRChat tiene la capacidad de banear usuarios de sus grupos. Según las [[Special:MyLanguage/Community Guidelines | normal de la comunidad]] de VRChat, los grupos pueden moderar sus estancias como consideren adecuado, y pueden usar baneos para hacer cumplir sus reglas; sin embargo, las reglas deberían ser razonablemente justas. La moderación de las estancias debería informar a los ocupantes sobre cualquier regla adicional que deba seguirse.

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Groups are owned and moderated by other users of the VRChat community, and being banished from a group will only prevent you from joining the group, and instances hosted by that group. Circumventing bans via an alternate account counts as harassment, and is against VRChat's [[Special:MyLanguage/Terms of Service | Terms of Service]], and Community Guidelines.</span>

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Ideally, groups should accept moderation appeals and processes, but are not required to. Using an alternate account to query about a ban is still deemed as harassment. VRChat's Trust & Safety team will not involve themselves regarding appeals or disputes for groups. However, if a Group is violating VRChat's Terms of Service or Community Guidelines, the group and users involved can be [[Special:MyLanguage/Reporting|reported]].</span>

<blockquote> <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">VRChat's Community Guidelines involving '''Group Instances''' are as follows:</span>

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">*''Groups may moderate their instances how they see fit. Group moderators can employ verbal or text-based warnings, system-level warnings, kicks, or even bans to enforce their rules.''</span>

 <div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
*''Group instance rules must be reasonable. In other words, people should be told about the rules, the rules should be fair, and the rules should make sense for the environment.''
**''It is the responsibility of the Group to inform Group instance occupants of any Group rules they need to follow.''
</div>
 <div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
**''Any rules should be fair. They should be possible to follow, and they should follow the spirit of the VRChat Community Guidelines: No hate, no harm, no harassment.''
*''Groups may not enforce rules that supersede VRChat's rules. You can't enforce a rule that breaks *our* rules.''
</div>
 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">*''Groups should handle Group moderation appeals and processes. If a user contacts VRChat Trust and Safety regarding a Group ban, they will be directed back to the Group.''</span>
 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">**''Having an appeal process for your Group is ideal. However, you aren't *required* to have an appeal process for your Group. You are welcome to deny appeals, or inform users that “no appeals are accepted.”''</span>
</blockquote>

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">==VRChat account bans==</span>
 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Account bans are suspensions from VRChat's platform, and related services. These suspensions are typically tied to a [[Special:MyLanguage/VRChat account | VRChat account]]. Any bans involving a VRChat account are enforced by VRChat's ''Trust & Safety'' team, and decisions are made, based on the [[Special:MyLanguage/Community Guidelines | Community Guidelines]], [[Special:MyLanguage/Terms of Service | Terms of Service]], and other related policies. It is the responsibility of the user to read, interpret, and understand VRChat's Community Guidelines, and Terms of Service; it is also the end-user's responsibility to secure their account from being compromised.</span>

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">When receiving an infraction, the e-mail address used to create the account will receive a message from VRChat's Trust & Safety team, mentioning the moderation action(s) taken against the account, the time and date when the infraction was applied, how long the suspension lasts, and the reason(s) for the ban. It will not be possible to log into VRChat or related services until the ban expires. Attempts to circumvent a ban will incur further punishment for the primary account, as well as any other accounts involved.</span>

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">To appeal a VRChat ban, submit a {{VRC link|https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us/requests/new|moderation ticket}} on the VRChat's Help Desk.</span>

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">=== Do not share your VRChat account ===</span>
<blockquote> <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">''"You should never share your account details with anyone else, for any reason. This includes sharing your password with any other user via any means. Never send your password to anyone, not even someone claiming to be a part of the VRChat Team.''</span><br>

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">''We realize that users often commission avatars and content from others, and that the commissioner will upload content for those users. Sharing account information for this purpose is strongly discouraged. The best way to share content with another user is to export a Unity Package for that user, and send it via secure means."</span><ref> <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">[https://medium.com/@vrchat/account-security-16be982332 "Account Security"] on ''[https://medium.com/@vrchat Medium]''. Dated June 11, 2018. Retrieved September 20, 2025.</span></ref></blockquote>''

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Other users, friends, family members, or parties involved with a commission should <u>never</u> be given access your VRChat account, or be given your password on the platform, [[Special:MyLanguage/VRChat SDK | VRChat SDK]], or otherwise. A compromised account can lead to its suspension. To prevent account hijackings, please secure your account with a thoughtful password. It is encouraged to apply [[Special:MyLanguage/Two-Factor Authentication (2FA)|two-factor authentication (2FA)]] on an external device for improved security.</span>

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">==Discord bans==</span>
 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Discord bans, are suspensions applied towards a user's Discord account, on any of VRChat's [[Special:MyLanguage/Discord servers | Discord servers]]. VRChat uses Discord as a platform for their community to socialize. While using any of VRChat's Discord servers, do not violate Discord's Terms of Service, as well as discuss or post anything that may violate VRChat's Terms of Service, Community Guidelines, or other policies.</span>

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Rules for VRChat's servers are listed in the ''#rules'' channel on the main VRChat Discord server, and VRChat Wiki Discord server. Rules for the VRChat Localization Discord server, are listed in ''#rules-and-faq''. [[Special:MyLanguage/Discord servers#Roles and responsibilities|Volunteer chat moderators]] are trusted to moderate as they see fit; moderation action can occur at any time, for any reason.</span>

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Appeals, regarding suspensions or bans, from any of VRChat's Discord servers can be submitted as a {{VRC link|https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us/requests/new|moderation ticket}} on the VRChat's Help Desk.</span>

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">==VRChat Wiki bans==</span>
 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Misconduct, or active defiance against implemented VRCWiki rules and policies, on either the VRChat Wiki, or the VRChat Wiki Discord server could lead to suspension of those accounts. The [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Team|VRChat Wiki team]] are volunteers, actively overseeing the development of the VRChat Wiki, and have permissions to moderate as seen fit.</span>

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Rules for the VRChat Wiki Discord server are posted in ''#rules.'' [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Guidelines|Guidelines]], and the [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Disciplinary policy|disciplinary policy]] for the VRChat Wiki are available to read. While using the VRChat Wiki Discord server, do not violate Discord's Terms of Service, as well as discuss or post anything that may violate VRChat's Terms of Service, Community Guidelines, or other policies.</span>

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">== Official resources ==</span>
 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">General VRChat resources</span>

 <div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* [https://docs.vrchat.com/docs/vrchat-safety-and-trust-system%7CVRChat Safety and Trust System] on ''docs.vrchat.com''
* {{VRC link|https://hello.vrchat.com/community|Community Guidelines}} on ''hello.vrchat.com''
* {{VRC link|https://hello.vrchat.com/legal|Terms of Service}} on ''hello.vrchat.com''
</div>

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">'''Help website resources'''</span>

 <div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* {{VRC link|https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us|VRChat Help Desk}} on ''help.vrchat.com''
** {{VRC link|https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us/categories/33315111286931-Safety-in-VRChat|Safety Guides in VRChat}} on ''help.vrchat.com''
* [https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us/articles/48406881241875-Trust-Safety-Reporting-Changes Trust & Safety Reporting Changes] (January 2026)
* [https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us/articles/33302819755539-Safety-Resources-For-Players Safety Resources: For Players]
* [https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us/articles/33301610887443-Safety-Resources-For-Parents Safety Resources: For Parents and Guardians]
* [https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us/articles/42024584226579-VRChat-Crisis-Resource VRChat Crisis Resource]
</div>

 <span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Help website articles</span>

 <div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* [https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us/articles/360062658553-I-want-to-report-someone Blocking, Unblocking, and Reporting Users in VRChat]
* [https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us/articles/360062658553-I-want-to-report-someone I want to report someone]
* [https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us/articles/43984755280403-Reporting-Avatars-and-Worlds Reporting Avatars and Worlds]
* [https://help.vrchat.com/hc/en-us/articles/43984160296083-Moderating-Stickers-Prints-and-Items Moderating Stickers, Prints, and Items]
</div>

 ==Véase también==
 <div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Rules and Guidelines
*[[Special:MyLanguage/Terms of Service | Terms of Service]]
*[[Special:MyLanguage/Community Guidelines | Community Guidelines]]
*[[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Guidelines | VRCWiki:Guidelines]]
*[[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Disciplinary policy | VRCWiki:Disciplinary policy]]
VRChat platform articles
*[[Special:MyLanguage/Trust and Safety | Trust and Safety]]
*[[Special:MyLanguage/Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) | Two-Factor Authentication (2FA)]]
*[[Special:MyLanguage/Reporting | Reporting]]
*[[Special:MyLanguage/Groups | Groups]]
</div>

 ==Referencias==