{{DISPLAYTITLE:User: OBSIDIAN KING}}

=WHO IS OBSIDIAN KING=

'''OBSIDIAN KING''' is everyone's favorite bouncer and professional bar hopper. A French-Canadian gremlin at heart, he is best known for hiding around corners and peeking into rooms as a giant Godzilla-Spartan. Finding Obsidian has become a game of hide-and-seek for many regulars, as he often appears in the most unexpected places throughout the bar.

When it comes to the bar scene, Obsidian has helped create one of the most beloved adults-only hangout communities in VRChat. His kind words, welcoming attitude, and massive avatar bring a sense of comfort and security to the door. While he can be firm when necessary, he has earned the respect of countless patrons and staff members through his positivity, fairness, and dedication to the community.

Over time, the bar has become an extension of his personality and values. Because of this, Obsidian has effectively become the unofficial mascot and bar pet of '''The Obsidian Night Bar'''.

Despite his intimidating appearance, Obsidian is a laid-back individual with a great sense of humor. Whether people are relaxing after a long day or dealing with bar-related stress, he always seems to find a way to make them laugh. It is not uncommon for people to rush over and greet him when he joins a server, often calling out his name the moment they spot him.

Although his size and serious appearance may make him seem intimidating at first, those who get to know him quickly discover that he is approachable, caring, and genuinely supportive. He has a heart as big as he is and will always step in to help when he feels someone needs support. Extremely social by nature, Obsidian enjoys meeting new people, listening to their stories, and helping everyone feel welcome.

'''He is also a human cat who enjoys purring and receiving head pats.'''

=FIRST STEPS INTO VRCHAT AND THE MIDNIGHT BAR=

Obsidian was first introduced to '''VRChat''' in mid-December 2023, where he quickly became fascinated by the bar scene and, more specifically, the role of the bouncer. Early on, he met a group of unlikely friends who welcomed him into their community, '''Demon Time Right Time''', as a bouncer. Unknowingly, this would become the beginning of an unforgettable journey.

Within only a few days, Obsidian found himself completely immersed in the community. He spent countless hours working in the bar scene, often spending more than 14 hours a day at '''The Midnight Bar'''. Because Demon Time Right Time was only open for a limited number of hours, he began applying to other bars, allowing him to meet people from across the wider VRChat community and build friendships throughout the scene.

As time went on, many of his friends encouraged him to create a community of his own. The idea was appealing, but he was hesitant. Creating a bar meant spending less time visiting other communities, and if he was going to do it, he wanted it to meet his own standards and expectations.

After much encouragement and careful consideration, the group was finally created. Even then, Obsidian remained uncertain about opening it immediately and chose to wait until he felt confident in the idea.

The response from the community quickly made the decision for him. Within only 20 days, over 550 people joined the group despite it never having opened its doors. It became clear that people were excited to see what would come next.

On February 17, 2024, '''The Obsidian Night Bar''' officially opened its doors.

=BEING A DRINK OWNER AND A BAR OWNER=

As '''The Obsidian Night Bar''' continued to grow, Obsidian decided it was time to contribute something unique to the community.

With the help of his friend Night Phoenix, he began developing an idea for an exclusive drink that would represent both himself and the group. After organizing reference photos and descriptions, '''Jmelt Kurisu''' brought the concept to life.

The result was '''The Bouncer'''.

The drink features a miniature Spartan-Godzilla version of Obsidian holding a massive cauldron of molten obsidian. To keep the contents boiling hot, the tiny creature periodically unleashes a powerful radiation beam into the cauldron. The drink was named after Obsidian's favorite role within the bar scene and is said to "bounce" its drinkers all the way to the back alley.

When asked how it feels to own a drink, Obsidian's response is simple:

''"I don't feel anything special about being a drink owner. I'm just glad our community can enjoy something fun."''

=FUN FACTS=

* It is possible to find Obsidian peeking around the corner near the bathroom or hiding behind random corners in bars throughout VRChat.
* He has been known to hold the same hiding position for hours at a time.
* Sometimes a Bouncer drink may mysteriously appear behind your bar with the jacuzzi unlocked, even though nobody ever saw Obsidian arrive.
* Obsidian's original favorite drink is the Dealer.
* Unless he has never tried a drink before and it is personally handed to him by its creator, he will only drink the Dealer and The Bouncer.
* Obsidian can occasionally be found standing only 0.20 meters tall on a countertop while holding a Bouncer drink.
* Rumors persist that somebody is secretly hiding inside one of his pockets.
* Looking toward the ceiling may occasionally reveal a glimpse of Obsidian's tail.
* He has been spotted hiding in rafters, on beams, beneath tables, and in countless other unusual locations.
* Obsidian once worked as a bouncer in numerous bars every day. These days, he prefers watching people enjoy the community he helped build.
* Obsidian attempted bartending exactly once and absolutely hated it. His fingers kept breaking the fizz machine.
* Seeing Obsidian standing upright is considered a terrifying experience by some.
* The strange rumbling sound occasionally heard nearby has been described as a doorstop, an engine struggling to start, or simply the comforting sound of Obsidian purring.
* Obsidian loves '''The Midnight Bar''', and some people claim they have never seen him anywhere else.
* Nobody is entirely sure who started calling him "Uncle Sidian."

==Gallery==