{{Noticebox/Official}}

<!-- I'm taking responsibility for this April Fool's content and will be sure this page is deleted appropriately afterward. - dorktoast -->

: ''You can browse VRChat worlds with grass in the [https://vrchat.com/home/worlds "Touch Grass" category of Discover Worlds here].''

'''Grass''' refers to various families of plants. The three major families of '''grasslike plants''' are true grasses (Poaceae), sedges (Cyperaceae), and rushes (Juncaceae). Lawns and pasturelands are typically composed of true grasses, five of which cover 46% of the world's arable land: rice, wheat, maize, barley, and sugar cane.

"Grass" as a name has been applied to a wide group of unrelated plants including herbaceous plants whose leaves and stems are eaten by domesticated and wild animals. The word may have its origin in the Proto-Indo-European root ''gʰreh₁-'', meaning "gloss to grow".

Grass can refer to a green area, such as a lawn, park, or a field, and is often used for recreation or for sports such as lawn tennis or bowls. Beginning in the 1970s, some sports venues have installed artificial grass to reduce maintenance costs.

In the context of VRChat, '''grass''' has taken on both literal and cultural significance. While many worlds feature visually simulated grass using shaders, textures, or mesh-based foliage systems, these representations are typically non-interactive and serve primarily aesthetic or atmospheric purposes. Advanced implementations may include dynamic wind effects, physics-based interaction, or procedural placement to enhance immersion.

Grass in VRChat environments is often subject to performance considerations. Due to the real-time rendering constraints of virtual reality, especially on lower-end systems and standalone devices, creators frequently employ optimization techniques such as billboarding, level of detail (LOD) scaling, or baked lighting to simulate dense grassy areas without excessive computational cost. As a result, virtual grass may appear stylized, simplified, or entirely absent depending on platform compatibility requirements.

Grass can also refer to a green area, such as a lawn, park, or a field, and is often used for recreation or for sports such as lawn tennis or bowls. Beginning in the 1970s, some sports venues have installed artificial grass to reduce maintenance costs.

==References==

-  [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grass Grass] on Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia