Hey, I'm Chloe, I'm a nobody who just cares alot about the future of this little land I call home, If you are up for converstations.

Please start a discussion on my page if you want to chat, I'm watching :D

== My work ==
I'm currently working on sevreal personal projects which later in the year will shed more light to the public, Users are free to ask questions on my discussion page.

Links to my work will remain private unless discussed as I enjoy quite spaces for personal projects.


== Public Bots for usage by anyone ==
[https://vrchat.com/home/user/usr_fde1c005-c3a4-4354-a9be-4fee45448fa9 AV-Monitor-1] - AV-Monitor is an automatic bot that will accept any group invites and start watching for instances which don't contain the AgeGate~ sign and automatically close them within 60 second.

How to use the bot will be within its bio.

== LTS ==
I keep note of personal pages publically deleted from VRCWiki.

Everything is of my personal opinion and theirfore exempt from MoS and CoI.

I intent to keep a public record of page deletions I have put personal time and intrest into which have been/will be removed by authoritarian action.

All my pages are web.archive saved, They will persist through time no matter how long passes, Public records are an important value of society and should not be depreciated.

== Deleted pages. ==
[https://web.archive.org/web/20250505104342/https://wiki.vrchat.com/wiki/Community:Tropical_Island_Villa Community:Tropical Island Villa] This page had a large talk/discussion page discussing the importants of public actions such as page deletions and style of content, forms of abhorrent behaviour, and failure to match Wiki policys which VRC-Wiki maintainers themselfs uphold. This page is pending restoration

== Pages marked for deletion. ==
[https://web.archive.org/web/20250622065903/https://wiki.vrchat.com/wiki/Community:Wulfie%27s_Hangout_n_Sleep Community:Wulfie's Hangout n Sleep] (Wiki link: [[Community:Wulfie's Hangout n Sleep]])

Freshly created page [[Community:VRCDN|VRCDN]] was marked for deletion within an hour of its creation [[Community:VRCDN]]

== Pages taken from creators ==
[https://web.archive.org/web/2/https://wiki.vrchat.com/wiki/Guides:How_to_get_started_with_vr_djing Guides:How to get started with vr djing] (Wiki link: [[Guides:How to get started with vr djing]]) taken by a maintainer: [[Guides:DJing in VRChat]] Originally by: [[User:Usr 8f6de7e4-3b91-4eb2-b273-0b012fa3e853]]