{{DISPLAYTITLE:「PC⁄Quest］Jet Airliner Flight［RJAA］}}
{{Noticebox/Community}}
{{Infobox/World
|name= Jet Airliner Flight
|image=File:M738_on_Jet_Airliner_Flight.png
|author= ESNYA／エスニヤ
|developers= ESNYA／エスニヤ,∗そに∗,Zlin9113 (main devs)
|capacity= 32 (16)
|platforms= PC, Android
|tags= airliner,flight,training,jet,flying
|languages= English, Japanese
|id= wrld_d79f6063-7794-4e16-83b9-8fd93d8100ff
|labs= March 7, 2022
|published= March 8, 2022
}}

'''Jet Airliner Flight''' is the most popular commercial airliner world in which complicated Jet Airliner can be controlled.<ref>World statistics by community https://www.vrcw.net/search?date_from=&date_to=&date_type=vrc_created_at&orderby=favorites&keyword=flight&mode=world</ref><br>
Made by VirtualAviationJapan.

== Design ==
This world is using Geographic Data of [https://www.google.com/maps/place/%E6%88%90%E7%94%B0%E5%9B%BD%E9%9A%9B%E7%A9%BA%E6%B8%AF/@35.7701823,140.3817466,882m/data=!3m2!1e3!4b1!4m6!3m5!1s0x6022f379d1bd3757:0xd56e29a162771aa1!8m2!3d35.770178!4d140.3843215!16zL20vMDFsazZo?entry=ttu&g_ep=EgoyMDI0MD Narita International Airport (成田国際空港)].

== Aircrafts ==
There are two M738 (medium size airliner) and one EJ4 (small business jet). Both types of aircraft have finger interactive functions. You can push the button, turn the knob, start the engine, select a NAV frequency, and more.

=== Before taking flight ===
Move ground vehicles away from the aircraft and remove chocks from the tire.

=== NAVs ===
Frequency: you can refer to [https://flightplandatabase.com/airport/RJAA real world information].<br>Set it via the console on the aircraft.

== Other world features ==
=== Ground Vehicles===
There is a gangway car, towing car, and cargo car. These can be driven.

=== Places ===
Respawn: Airport apron.<br>Control Tower: Can be entered using SaccJump. there is a radio and a rader.

=== Difficulty ===
This world is peaceful (as in there are no weapons and no avatar colliders), but it will be difficult for beginners.
* '''There is simulation of damage.''' engine temperature and fire / flap strength / landing gear strength. The MSFS HowTo may be helpful.
* '''One person is not enough to operate it.''' Operating navigation equipment and driving alone is an act of acrobatics and therefore not feasible.

== Current status ==
This world is no longer in development, but is still operational.<br>The developer stated that there will be no future updates, meaning a future VRChat update may break some functionality.

== References ==
{{reflist|1}}

[[Category:Worlds]]
[[Category:Simulator worlds]]
[[Category:Community Content]]
[[Category:English]]
[[Category:Japanese]]