<languages/>
{{Noticebox/Official}}
{{Stub|Pouca informação aqui! Você pode [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:How to Contribute|contribuir]], expandindo e revisando este artigo, de acordo com o [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Manual of Style|Manual de Estilo]].}}
A '''Dinâmica de Avatar''' é um recurso de [[Special:MyLanguage/Avatars|avatar]], introduzido inicialmente no VRChat em 21 de abril de 2022<ref>[https://hello.vrchat.com/blog/avatar-dynamics-live VRChat Blog: Avatar Dynamics Live]</ref>. Trata-se de um conjunto de funcionalidades que adiciona mais interações entre avatares. Substituindo componentes antigos e adicionando novas opções para avatares. Esta versão também introduziu um novo sistema de permissões que permite aos usuários definir quem pode interagir com esses novos recursos.

==PhysBones==

''Veja também [[Special:MyLanguage/Physbones|Physbones]] para mais informações detalhadas.''

O Physbones permite movimentos secundários e ossos interativos para avatares. Possibilitando que os usuários segurem, movam e manipulem partes do avatar (como cabelo e orelhas).

<span id="Contacts"></span>
==Contatos==

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
''See also [https://creators.vrchat.com/avatars/avatar-dynamics/contacts/ Contacts] for more detailed information.''
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Contacts are a system that allows avatars to detect collisions with itself or other avatars. These collisions can then be used to drive the animation controller and perform all sorts of fun effects.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==Permissions==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The Avatar Dynamics permission system gives you complete control over who can interact with your avatar and how:
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Global Permissions===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Choose “Everyone,” “Friends,” or “Nobody” as a default setting for all users.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Per-User Overrides===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Individually grant or deny avatar interaction permissions for specific users.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Quick Toggle/Panic Mode===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Instantly pause all interactions (regardless of any other settings) with one button press in the Quick Menu.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==References==
</div>

<references/>

[[Category:Needs images]]
[[Category:Features{{#translation:}}]]