<languages/>
{{Noticebox/Official}}
<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
{{Stub|Not much information here! You can [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:How to Contribute|contribute]], by expanding and proofreading this article, in accordance with the [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]].}}
'''Avatar Dynamics''', is an [[Special:MyLanguage/Avatars|avatar]] feature, initially introduced to VRChat on April 21, 2022<ref>[https://hello.vrchat.com/blog/avatar-dynamics-live VRChat Blog: Avatar Dynamics Live]</ref>. is a set of features to add more interactions between avatars. Replacing older avatar components, and adding new options for avatars. This release also introduced a new permission system to let people set who can interact with these new features.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==PhysBones==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
''See also [[Special:MyLanguage/Physbones|Physbones]] for more detailed information.''
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Physbones allows for secondary motion and interact-able bones for avatars. Allowing users to grab, move, and manipulate avatar parts (e.g., hair, ears).
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==Contacts==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
''See also [https://creators.vrchat.com/avatars/avatar-dynamics/contacts/ Contacts] for more detailed information.''
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Contacts are a system that allows avatars to detect collisions with itself or other avatars. These collisions can then be used to drive Animator parameters and perform many kinds of interaction effects.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Contact Senders===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
A '''Contact Sender''' defines a collision volume that can be detected by a matching Contact Receiver. Senders can use a sphere or capsule shape, a root transform, local position and rotation offsets, and one or more collision tags.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
On avatars, the ''Colliders'' section of the [[Special:MyLanguage/Avatar Descriptor|Avatar Descriptor]] also creates built-in Contact Senders for common body parts such as hands and fingers.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Contact Receivers===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
A '''Contact Receiver''' listens for matching senders and writes a value to an Animator parameter on the avatar. Receivers can be configured to allow self-contact, other users, or only local evaluation.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
VRChat supports three receiver behaviors:
* '''Constant''' keeps a parameter active while a matching sender stays inside the receiver.
* '''On Enter''' activates for one frame when a matching sender enters, optionally requiring a minimum velocity.
* '''Proximity''' outputs a float from `0.0` to `1.0` based on how close the sender is to the center of the receiver.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Tags and parameters===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Contacts only interact when a sender and receiver share at least one matching collision tag. The receiver's ''Parameter'' field determines which Animator parameter is updated. Depending on the Animator parameter type, the value may be interpreted as a float, int, or bool.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Debugging===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
In Unity, Contact gizmos appear when Gizmos are enabled and the contact or one of its parents is selected. In VRChat, the Avatar Dynamics overlay can also be used to visualize Contacts and PhysBones during testing.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==Permissions==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The Avatar Dynamics permission system gives you complete control over who can interact with your avatar and how:
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Global Permissions===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Choose “Everyone,” “Friends,” or “Nobody” as a default setting for all users.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Per-User Overrides===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Individually grant or deny avatar interaction permissions for specific users.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Quick Toggle/Panic Mode===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Instantly pause all interactions (regardless of any other settings) with one button press in the Quick Menu.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==Official resources==
* [https://creators.vrchat.com/avatars/avatar-components/ Avatar Components] on Creator Docs
* [https://creators.vrchat.com/avatars/avatar-dynamics/physbones/ PhysBones] on Creator Docs
* [https://creators.vrchat.com/avatars/avatar-dynamics/contacts/ Contacts] on Creator Docs
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==References==
</div>

<references/>

[[Category:Needs images]]
[[Category:Features{{#translation:}}]]