{{Noticebox/Community}}
{{Noticebox/wip}}
'''Manage VRChat''' encompasses the tasks involved in organizing and controlling a user's VRChat experience, including [[Avatars|avatars]], [[Worlds|worlds]], [[Groups|groups]], [[Social|social connections]], [[Inventory|inventory]], and [[VRChat Account|account settings]]. These tasks can be performed through VRChat's in-game menus, the [https://vrchat.com/home VRChat website], or third-party applications that interact with VRChat through the [[VRChat API]].

==Account==
''Main articles: [[VRChat Account]], [[Account Linking]], [[VRC+]]''

A [[VRChat Account|VRChat account]] provides access to the [https://vrchat.com/home VRChat website], the [[VRChat SDK]], and other VRChat services. Users who originally signed up through a platform such as Steam or Meta can [[Account Linking|link their platform account]] to a full VRChat account to unlock additional features. An active [[VRC+]] subscription expands storage limits for avatar favorites, world favorites, and [[Inventory|inventory]] items.

==Avatars==
''Main articles: [[Avatars]], [[Public Avatars]], [[Avatar Marketplace]]''

Users can manage their avatar collection by favoriting avatars they encounter, cloning avatars from other users (if cloning is enabled), or browsing [[Public Avatars|public avatars]] in the [[Shop]]. Additional avatars can be purchased through the [[Avatar Marketplace]]. Users with the required [[Trust Rank|trust rank]] can upload custom avatars using the [[VRChat SDK]].

==Worlds==
''Main articles: [[Worlds]], [[Instances]], [[Community Labs]]''

VRChat provides several tools for organizing worlds. Users can set a [[Worlds|home world]], maintain favorite world lists, and browse world categories or search for specific worlds. Creators can upload worlds using the [[VRChat SDK]], which first appear in [[Community Labs]] before becoming fully public. Each world can have multiple [[Instances|instances]] with different access types and regions.

==Groups==
''Main article: [[Groups]]''

[[Groups]] allow users to form and organize communities within VRChat. Members can join up to 100 groups (or 200 with [[VRC+]]), represent a group on their nameplate and profile, and participate in group [[Instances|instances]] and [[Calendar|events]]. Group owners can configure roles, permissions, and membership visibility.

==Social==
''Main articles: [[Social]], [[Trust Rank]], [[Reporting]]''

VRChat's [[Social|social features]] include a friends list, friend favorites, user profiles, statuses, invites, and friend notes. Users can manage who they interact with through blocking, muting, and [[Reporting|reporting]]. The [[Trust Rank]] system determines what level of content a user can see by default from other users.

==Inventory==
''Main articles: [[Inventory]], [[Emojis]], [[Stickers]], [[Items]]''

The [[Inventory]] system allows users to manage photos, prints, user icons, emojis, stickers, and items. Some inventory features, such as custom user icons and the photo gallery, require an active [[VRC+]] subscription. Users can upload custom [[Emojis|emojis]] and use [[Stickers|stickers]] and [[Items|items]] during gameplay.

==VRChat website==
''Main article: [[Resources]]''

Many management tasks can also be performed outside of the VRChat client through the [https://vrchat.com/home VRChat website]. The website provides access to friends, worlds, avatars, groups, and profile settings. It also serves as the primary interface for account management, including password resets and two-factor authentication.

==Third-party tools==

In addition to VRChat's built-in tools, third-party applications provide alternative interfaces for managing VRChat through the [[VRChat API]]. These tools often extend built-in features with additions such as unlimited local favorites, activity logging, and desktop notifications.

===Feature comparison===

{| class="wikitable"
! Feature !! VRChat !! [[Community:VRCX|VRCX]] !! [[Community:VRCNext|VRCNext]]
|-
! colspan="4" | Friends and social
|-
| View friends list || Yes || Yes, + fuzzy search, instance grouping || Yes
|-
| Add or remove friends || Yes || Yes, + bulk unfriend || Yes
|-
| Favorite friends || Yes (3 lists) || Yes, + unlimited local favorites || Yes
|-
| Friend notes || Yes (up to 5,000) || Yes, + unlimited local memos, custom color tags || Yes
|-
| Block or mute users || Yes || Yes || Yes, + blocked/muted list view
|-
| Friend activity log || No || Yes (status, avatar, location, bio, name changes) || Yes (online/offline, status, bio)
|-
| Time spent tracking || No || Yes (time together, friendship dates, activity heatmap, avatar wear time) || Yes (time with users, time in worlds)
|-
| Mutual friends || Yes || Yes, + interactive graph visualization || Yes
|-
| Messenger || No || No || Yes (via invite/response messages; rate-limited)
|-
| Multi-invite to instance || No || Yes (searchable dialog, shows who is already present) || Yes (with progress bar; rate-limited)
|-
! colspan="4" | Worlds and instances
|-
| Search for worlds || Yes || Yes, + paste IDs or URLs || Yes
|-
| View world details || Yes || Yes || Yes
|-
| Create instances || Yes || Yes || Yes
|-
| Create group instances || Yes || Yes || Yes
|-
| Favorite worlds || Yes (4 lists / 8 with VRC+) || Yes, + unlimited local favorites || Yes, + move between groups
|-
| View active instances || Yes || Yes, + instance activity chart || Yes
|-
! colspan="4" | Avatars
|-
| Change avatar || Yes || Yes || Yes
|-
| Search avatars || Yes || Yes, + configurable external avatar databases || Yes, + avtrdb.com, Rose Database
|-
| Favorite avatars || Yes (1 list / 6 with VRC+) || Yes, + unlimited local favorites || Yes
|-
| Upload avatar/world images || No || Yes (with automatic resizing) || No
|-
| Edit avatar/world details || No || Yes (name, description, tags; bulk content tag editor) || No
|-
! colspan="4" | Groups
|-
| View and manage groups || Yes || Yes, + CSV export || Yes
|-
| Create group posts || Yes || Yes || Yes
|-
| View group gallery || Yes || Yes || Yes
|-
| Group favorites export/import || No || Yes || No
|-
! colspan="4" | Profile
|-
| Edit status and bio || Yes || Yes, + saved status presets || Yes
|-
| Change profile picture || Yes || Yes || Yes
|-
| Edit social links || Yes || Yes || Yes
|-
! colspan="4" | Notifications
|-
| Friend requests || Yes || Yes || Yes
|-
| Instance invites || Yes || Yes || Yes
|-
| Real-time notifications || In-game only || Yes, + desktop toasts, VR overlay || Yes, + toast cards, inline accept/deny
|-
! colspan="4" | Media and photos
|-
| View VRChat photos || Yes || Yes, + world metadata search || Yes, + sorted by date, infinite scroll, filters
|-
| Photo world metadata || In-game only || Yes, + metadata search || Yes (requires VRCCam metadata)
|-
| Discord webhook relay || No || No || Yes (up to 4 webhooks; custom bot name/avatar)
|-
! colspan="4" | Integration and utilities
|-
| Discord Rich Presence || In-game only || Yes, + world thumbnail, player count, join button || No
|-
| VR overlay || N/A || Yes (HMD + wrist overlay; live notification feed) || Yes (friends tab with quick invite; world location tab)
|-
| Auto-launch companion apps || No || Yes || Yes
|-
| Chatbox relay (now playing, stats) || No || No || Yes (Spotify/iTunes, AFK, CPU/RAM, time, session duration; live preview)
|-
| OSC parameter control || In-game only || No || Yes, + auto-detect parameters
|-
| World persistence || Yes || Partial (being deprecated in favor of VRChat's native implementation) || No
|-
| Crash recovery and auto-rejoin || No || Yes || No
|-
| Events calendar || Yes || Yes || Yes
|-
| VRCVideoCacher integration || No || No || Yes (install, update, start/stop from app)
|-
! colspan="4" | Platform availability
|-
| Windows || Yes || Yes || Yes
|-
| Linux || Yes (in-game via Steam/Proton) || Yes (Electron AppImage) || Partial (early build; porting in progress)
|-
| macOS || Website only || Yes (Electron; Homebrew available) || No
|-
| Android / iOS || Yes || No || No
|}

==See also==
*[[Avatars]]
*[[Worlds]]
*[[Groups]]
*[[Social]]
*[[Inventory]]
*[[VRChat Account]]
*[[Settings]]
*[[Resources]]
*[[Community:VRCX|VRCX]]
*[[Community:VRCNext|VRCNext]]
*[[Community:VRCOSC|VRCOSC]]
*[[Community:XSOverlay|XSOverlay]]
*[[Community:OVR Toolkit|OVR Toolkit]]
*[[VRChat API]]

[[Category:Needs images{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:Third-party applications{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:Resources{{#translation:}}]]