<languages/>
<translate>
<!--T:1-->
{{Noticebox/Community}}There are several remedies, to fix [[Special:MyLanguage/Troubleshooting|issues]] regarding maintaining a stable connection to [[Special:MyLanguage/VRChat|VRChat]].
== Glossary ==
This guide contains computer terminology, and frequently mentions these abbreviations:

<!--T:2-->
* '''DNS''' - Domain Name System: A protocol that locates and connects your device to a website's IP address.
* '''EDNS ECS''' - Extension Mechanisms for DNS Client Subnet: A mechanism for recursive DNS resolvers to send partial client IP address information to authoritative DNS name servers.
* '''IP''' - Internet Protocol address: An address, associated with your device's internet connection, establishing your device to a network, such as a website.
* '''ISP''' - Internet Service Provider: A company that allows your device to connect to the Internet. Examples of this are: Comcast, Virgin, and NTT Docomo.
* '''OS''' - Operating System.
* '''Upstream provider''' - A service that aids in the infrastructure of a platform, in this case, VRChat.
* '''VPN''' - Virtual Private Network: Software that can encrypt or secure your connection, through the method of 'tunneling' with different IP addresses.

<!--T:3-->
== Check official VRChat outlets ==
VRChat provides outlets for users to check if VRChat has confirmed server instabilities, or outages. 

<!--T:4-->
On the web:

<!--T:49-->
* https://status.vrchat.com/
* https://x.com/VRChat_Status

<!--T:50-->
On Discord:

<!--T:51-->
* https://discord.com/channels/189511567539306508/400375734423781379

<!--T:5-->
=== Upstream providers ===
In addition, VRChat has multiple "upstream providers" that affect sign in, account authorization, and server stabilities.

<!--T:6-->
==== Account Authorization ====
These upstream providers handle account data attached to your "[[Special:MyLanguage/Platforms|platform]] [[Special:MyLanguage/VRChat account|account]]", as well as game data hosted from their respective application stores.

<!--T:52-->
* Meta
* Steam
* Google
* PICO
* Viveport

<!--T:7-->
==== Instance hosting ====
VRChat hosts [[Special:MyLanguage/Instances|instancing]] across four different servers via Photon, one tied to its own region. Occasionally, maintenance may be required on a server, rendering instability on a region for a brief period of time.

<!--T:53-->
* Photon Engine
** U.S. West
** U.S. East
** Europe
** Japan

<!--T:8-->
==== Creator Economy and purchases ====
VRChat's [[Special:MyLanguage/Creator Economy|Creator Economy]] is dependent on Thunes, formerly Tilia, services to render transactions, and verify purchase information between users and vendors.

<!--T:54-->
* Thunes (formerly Tilia)

<!--T:9-->
==Unstable connection==
limited IPv6 support from ISP

<!--T:10-->
===Option 1 - Using a VPN tunnel===
If you're having connection issues, it may be a good idea to utilize a VPN Tunnel, to stabilize your connection. Note that using VPNs that hide your IP or change your virtual geographical location may result in errors and being frequently logged out.

<!--T:11-->
# [https://developers.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/warp/ WARP by Cloudflare] is a VPN tunnel that aims to stabilize your connection and encrypt your traffic using Cloudflare's servers, which could help with connection issues in VRChat.
## [https://developers.cloudflare.com/1.1.1.1/setup/ 1.1.1.1 by Cloudflare] is an alternate DNS resolver bundled with WARP. It's designed for security and privacy by encrypting some of your device's traffic.

<!--T:12-->
===Option 2 - Configuring DNS servers.===
*'''Windows10''': https://docs.quad9.net/Setup_Guides/Windows/Windows_10/
*'''Windows11''': https://docs.quad9.net/Setup_Guides/Windows/Windows_11_%28Encrypted%29/
*'''Mac''': https://docs.quad9.net/Setup_Guides/MacOS/Big_Sur_and_later_%28Encrypted%29/
*'''Linux''': https://docs.quad9.net/Setup_Guides/Linux_and_BSD/Ubuntu_22.04_%28Encrypted%29/

<!--T:13-->
The guides for the DNS settings above will, by default, use IP addresses that connect to "Quad9" DNS servers. 
Instead, use the provided Cloudflare IP addresses.

<!--T:14-->
'''You must put both IPv4 and IPv6 settings to make it work without issue.'''
<syntaxhighlight lang="bbcode" line="1">
<IPv4>
1.1.1.1
1.0.0.1

<!--T:55-->
<IPv6>
2001:4860:4860::8888
2001:4860:4860::8844
</syntaxhighlight>

<!--T:15-->
'''1.1.1.1''' (Server 1) should be your preferred address, while '''1.0.0.1''' (Server 2) should be your alternate address. 
However, you can use any of these other DNS options below. You may choose any DNS provider; options are not limited to only Cloudflare.
</translate>

{| class="wikitable"
|+
|-
!<translate><!--T:16--> Provider</translate>!!<translate><!--T:17--> IPv4 Server</translate>!!<translate><!--T:18--> IPv6 Server</translate>
!<translate><!--T:19--> IPv4 Server (EDNS ECS)</translate>!!<translate><!--T:20--> IPv6 Server(EDNS ECS)</translate>
|-
|[https://developers.google.com/speed/public-dns Google]||8.8.8.8
8.8.4.4
|2001:4860:4860::8888
2001:4860:4860::8844
|<translate><!--T:21--> Supported as default</translate>
|<translate><!--T:22--> Supported as default</translate>
|-
|[https://controld.com/free-dns Control D]||76.76.2.0
76.76.10.0
|2606:1a40::
2606:1a40:1::
|<translate><!--T:33--> Not supported</translate>
|<translate><!--T:34--> Not supported</translate>
|-
|[https://www.quad9.net/service/service-addresses-and-features/ Quad9]||9.9.9.9
149.112.112.112
|2620:fe::fe
2620:fe::9
|9.9.9.11
149.112.112.11
|
2620:fe::11

2620:fe::fe:11
|-
|[https://www.opendns.com/setupguide/ OpenDNS Home]||208.67.222.222
208.67.220.220
|
2620:119:35::35

2620:119:53::53
|<translate><!--T:23--> Supported as default</translate>
|<translate><!--T:24--> Supported as default</translate>
|-
|[https://one.one.one.one/dns/ Cloudflare]||1.1.1.1
1.0.0.1
|2606:4700:4700::1111
2606:4700:4700::1001
|<translate><!--T:25--> Not supported</translate>
|<translate><!--T:26--> Not supported</translate>
|-
|[https://adguard-dns.io/en/public-dns.html AdGuard DNS]||94.140.14.14
94.140.15.15
|2a10:50c0::ad1:ff

2a10:50c0::ad2:ff
|<translate><!--T:27--> Supported as default</translate>
|<translate><!--T:28--> Supported as default</translate>
|-
|[https://cleanbrowsing.org/filters/ CleanBrowsing]||185.228.168.9
185.228.169.9
|2a0d:2a00:1::

2a0d:2a00:2:: 
|<translate><!--T:29--> Not supported</translate>
|<translate><!--T:30--> Not supported</translate>
|}
Source: https://www.lifewire.com/free-and-public-dns-servers-2626062

<translate>
<!--T:35-->
EDNS ECS provides closer hosts, than traditional DNS servers, which sometimes is easier to use on cloud service providers who typically host worldwide. 

<!--T:56-->
Reference: https://adguard-dns.io/en/blog/privacy-friendly-edns-client-subnet.html

<!--T:36-->
=== Option 3 - Elevate IPv4 priority over IPv6 on Windows ===
This will prioritize using IPv4 over IPv6, without disabling IPv6 completely.
*This option may not works if your ISP stop offering IPv4 completely.

<!--T:37-->
To enable on Windows,

<!--T:57-->
* Open the command prompt by pressing the "Windows Key", and typing "cmd", which opens the Command Console; then press "Run as Administrator".
* Type "netsh interface ipv6 set prefixpolicy ::ffff:0:0/96 100 4", and press the Enter key.
* This should prioritize IPv4, after restarting your PC.

<!--T:38-->
To disable IPv6 prioritization,

<!--T:58-->
* Open the command prompt again, by pressing the "Windows Key", and typing "cmd", and "Run as Administrator" again.
* Type "netsh interface ipv6 reset" and press the Enter key.
* This should revert the IPv4 prioritization after restarting your PC.

<!--T:39-->
===Option 4 - Disabling IPv6 and forcing IPv4 use (DO NOT USE)===
Many ISPs have started removing IPv4 capability completely, due to worldwide shortages of IPv4 addresses. 
If your ISP doing this, this method may not work, and may not allow you to connect to the Internet at all. 
There are some available guides on how to disable IPv6 protocol if you knows what you are doing:
*'''Windows''': https://support.surfshark.com/hc/en-us/articles/360011550199-How-to-disable-IPv6-on-Windows
*'''Mac''': https://support.surfshark.com/hc/en-us/articles/360012367560-How-to-disable-IPv6-on-macOS
*'''Linux''': https://support.surfshark.com/hc/en-us/articles/360024470413-How-to-disable-IPv6-on-a-Linux-device

<!--T:40-->
==Troubleshooting==
Connection instability may happen, due to packets being sent out of order, or having a slow or unstable internet connection. There may be several reasons as to why a connection can be unstable, however, here are some of the most common methods of troubleshooting the issue:

<!--T:41-->
=== Update VRChat ===
VRChat may need to be updated! A message may prompt you to update your VRChat client on Steam, or the Meta store.

<!--T:42-->
=== Reboot router ===
Reboot your router, by turning off the router, waiting a couple minutes, and turning it back on.

<!--T:43-->
=== File integrity ===
Check the integrity of the firmware for your GPU drivers, or VRChat software. If necessary, you may need to reinstall VRChat.

<!--T:44-->
=== Whitelisting your antivirus or firewall ===
Make sure your firewall or antivirus software are not blocking your connection to VRChat. If necessary, VRChat and Easy Anti Cheat should be whitelisted on your antivirus or firewall softwares.
*By using "ping/nslookup/tracert" on the Command Prompt, to find out, depending if you are using a compatible operating system and software.

<!--T:45-->
=== Output logs ===
By default, VRChat's output logs are located under "%USERNAME%\AppData\LocalLow\VRChat\vrchat" and named "output_log_(date)". Check the latest dated file, and seek any instabilities with your connection to VRChat. 

<!--T:60-->
{{VRC link|https://vrch.at/support|VRChat's User Support}}, or troubleshooting on VRChat's [[Special:MyLanguage/Discord servers|Discord servers]] may be able to find the issue, as a last resort.

<!--T:61-->
=== System time ===
Double check your system clock, against the current time with your time zone, and make sure the time is set correctly.
[[Category:Guides{{#translation:}}]]

<!--T:47-->
==Useful resources==
Downdetector can be used as a guide to check earlier indication of ISP issues. However, this does not always confirm issues with an upstream provider. Please use at your discretion as a margin for judgement.
</translate>
{| class="wikitable"
|+ 
|-
| Downdetector US || https://downdetector.com/
|-
| Downdetector UK || https://downdetector.co.uk/
|-
| Downdetector DE || https://allestörungen.de/
|-
| Downdetector FR || https://downdetector.fr/
|-
| Downdetector ES || https://downdetector.es/
|-
| Downdetector JP || https://downdetector.jp/
|}

<translate>== See also == <!--T:48-->

<!--T:59-->
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Instances|Instances]]
</translate>

[[Category:Guides{{#translation:}}]]