{{Noticebox/Official}}
'''We're Here''' is a blog post published on March 31, 2026, on [[hello.vrchat.com]], in which [[VRChat]]'s co-founders ([[VRChat Team#Co-founders|Graham Gaylor and Jesse Joudrey]]) addressed recent closures and changes at competing social VR platforms and affirmed that VRChat would continue operating and investing in its community.<ref name="were-here">[https://hello.vrchat.com/blog/were-here "We're Here."] on ''hello.vrchat.com''. Dated March 31, 2026.</ref>

== Background ==
The post appeared during what the co-founders called "a rough month" for the social VR industry.<ref name="were-here"/> On March 30, 2026, Rec Room announced it would shut down on June 1, 2026, citing an inability to reach sustainable profitability.<ref name="recroom-blog">[https://blog.recroom.com/posts/schools-out-for-rec-room "School's out for Rec Room"] on ''blog.recroom.com''. Dated March 30, 2026.</ref><ref name="techcrunch-recroom">[https://techcrunch.com/2026/03/31/social-gaming-platform-rec-room-once-valued-at-3-5b-is-shutting-down/ Social gaming platform Rec Room, once valued at $3.5B, is shutting down] on ''TechCrunch''. Dated March 31, 2026.</ref> Around the same time, Meta announced it would remove ''Horizon Worlds'' from VR headsets, transitioning the platform to mobile and web only.<ref name="meta-forum">[https://communityforums.atmeta.com/discussions/News_and_Announcements/horizon-transition-update-march-2026/1369560 Horizon Transition Update March 2026] on ''Meta Community Forums''. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref><ref name="uploadvr-horizon">[https://uploadvr.com/meta-horizon-worlds-dropping-vr-support/ Horizon Worlds Is Dropping VR Support, Going Flatscreen-Only] on ''UploadVR''. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref>

== Content ==
The co-founders stated that VRChat was not shutting down and highlighted recent growth: a new concurrent-user record of nearly 160,000, surpassing the previous peak set on New Year's Eve 2025.<ref name="were-here"/><ref name="rtvr-were-here">[https://www.roadtovr.com/vrchat-still-here-founders-say-rec-room-horizon-worlds/ "VRChat is not going anywhere" Founders Reassure Amid Downturn in Social VR Platforms] on ''Road to VR''. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref> They also pointed to expansion of VRChat's creator economy and the [[Avatar Marketplace]], naming creators Studio TrickForge, spookyghostboo, and nawty as examples of people earning on the platform.<ref name="were-here"/><ref name="rtvr-marketplace">[https://www.roadtovr.com/vrchat-avatar-marketplace-release-digital-economy/ 'VRChat' Opens New Marketplace for Buying and Selling VR Avatars] on ''Road to VR''. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref>

The post described VRChat's community as "the heartbeat that no amount of funding can replicate" and invited users seeking a new platform to consider VRChat, citing more than a decade of operation.<ref name="were-here"/>

In a separate statement to ''Good Virtual Reality'' on the same day, VRChat confirmed that the company was "hiring, and building for the long term."<ref name="goodvr">[https://www.goodvirtualreality.com/p/as-rec-room-shuts-down-vrchat-builds As Rec Room Shuts Down VRChat Builds 'For The Long Term'] on ''Good Virtual Reality''. Dated March 31, 2026.</ref>

== Reception ==
Several outlets covered the post as a reassurance to VRChat's community following the Rec Room closure and Meta's changes to Horizon Worlds.<ref name="rtvr-were-here"/><ref name="goodvr"/> ''UKRifter'' described the moment as "a unique opportunity for VRChat to attract users from these departing platforms."<ref name="ukrifter">[https://www.ukrifter.com/vrchat-founders-assure-users-amid-decline-of-social-vr-platforms/ VRChat Founders Assure Users Amid Decline of Social VR Platforms] on ''UKRifter''. Retrieved April 9, 2026.</ref>

== See also ==
* [[VRChat Team]]
* [[Avatar Marketplace]]
* [[New Years Eve]]

== Official resources ==
* [https://hello.vrchat.com/blog/were-here We're Here] on ''hello.vrchat.com''
* [https://jobs.lever.co/vrchat/ VRChat Careers]

== References ==
<references />