<languages/>
{{Noticebox/Community}}
<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
'''Rexouium''' (Latin: ''king caretaker)'', is an open species, and [[Special:MyLanguage/Avatars|avatar]] base originally created by Rezillo Ryker in 2021.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==Traits==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The Rexouium species' defining traits are:
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Their height (up to 7 feet, or 213 centimeters tall)
* Strong legs
* Long, pointed ears
* Mane-like feathers along the top of the head and the back of the neck
* Tufts of feathers on the limb joints (elbows, wrists, knees)
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==Avatar Bases==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Being an open species, multiple creators have released avatar bases featuring their signature look.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
These bases include full facial visemes, have full support for [[Special:MyLanguage/Full-Body Tracking|full body tracking]] and VRChat's native [[Special:MyLanguage/Eye tracking|eye tracking]] out-of-the-box, while some also have support for [[Special:MyLanguage/Face-tracking|face tracking]] and [[Special:MyLanguage/MMD|MMD]] visemes (either built-in or as community add-ons). The bases also typically come with both Desktop and Android platform support, with different versions optimized to meet each platforms mandatory limits.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Rexouium Avatar by Rezillo Ryker===
</div>

{{Infobox/AvatarType
|name=Rexouium Avatar
|image=File:Avatar-Rexouium-Lagacy-Image.png
|author=Rezillo Ryker
|published=2021
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The original base made by the species' creator, '''Rezillo Ryker''', is commonly considered to be the "default avatar"{{Citation needed}} of [[Special:MyLanguage/Community:Furry culture in VRChat|furries on VRChat]]. Due to the Rexouium's similar canine facial structure and customizability, the avatar can be made to fit many of the most common animal species used by furries and their characters.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
As a result, it is among the most widely-used{{Citation needed}} models with a large number of compatible accessories made by the rest of the community. The model also contains a lot of customization blendshapes, and the newer version includes the ability to switch between digitigrade and plantigrade leg styles. With its versatility, avatar creators often use this base to create avatars with a lot of customization options and clothing, which lead to avatars based on this model becoming frequented by furries.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
This base is primarily distributed via [[Special:MyLanguage/Gumroad|Gumroad]]<ref>[https://rezilloryker.gumroad.com/l/MYutV 'Rexouium Avatar'] on Gumroad; retrieved September 10, 2024</ref>. The model also comes with a separate, albeit more pricy, license option for commercial use.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Rexouium Evolved and EvoRex HD, by Tosca===
</div>

{{Infobox/AvatarType
|name=Rexouium Evolved
|image=
|author=Tosca
|published=February 21, 2022
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
This base was created by '''Tosca''', who included both digitigrade and plantigrade leg styles in their avatars as early as 2021<ref>[https://xtosca.gumroad.com/l/ToscaFox Fox Redux avatar by Tosca (Gumroad)]</ref>, including the Rexouium Evolved. The digitigrade rigs were originally created using a method based on Unity bone constraints which was pioneered by DragonSkyRunner<ref>[https://www.furaffinity.net/view/41593602/ (DEPRECIATED) VRChat Real Digitigrade Leg Tutorial by DragonSkyRunner (Furaffinity)]</ref><ref>[https://www.furaffinity.net/view/44035707/ ChilloutVR / VRChat Real Digitigrade Legs Tutorial 2.6]</ref> and more recently Tosca has been using another method by Reign04.<ref>[https://discord.com/channels/733205748779319327/1066477815232466984/1283224564075200512 Discord message] by Tosca on their [https://discord.gg/YZmzeEjuB5 official Discord server]</ref> Since VRChat did not support constraints for Android builds on the [[Special:MyLanguage/Platforms|platform]] at the time of the base's release, the digitigrade rig version of the avatar is only usable on the PC platform. This base is also primarily distributed via Gumroad<ref>[https://xtosca.gumroad.com/l/ToscaRex 'Rexouium Evolved'] on Gumroad; retrieved September 10, 2024</ref>.{{Infobox/AvatarType
|name=EvoRex HD
|image=
|author=Tosca
|published=March 4, 2023
}}
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
In 2023, Tosca also published the '''EvoRex HD''' base model, with the main new feature being split [[Special:MyLanguage/UV maps|UVs]], that allow for the use of larger resolution textures on certain parts of the avatar. The EvoRex HD is also sold on Gumroad<ref>[https://xtosca.gumroad.com/l/EvoRexHD 'EvoRex HD'] on Gumroad; retrieved September 10, 2024</ref>, and was provided to the owners of the previous model version for free.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
There are no specific restrictions on this base for commercial use, beyond the requirement that model files must not be redistributed by buyers.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Rezuium by Hirozu===
</div>

{{Infobox/AvatarType
|name=Rezuium
|image=
|author=Hirozu
|published=May 27 2023
}}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The Rezuium, created by '''Hirozu''', provides an alternative to the previous avatars with a different style and built-in face tracking. A separate clothing accessory package is also available. Rezuium is also available on Gumroad<ref>[https://hirozu.gumroad.com/l/Rezuium 'Rezuium' avatar] on Gumroad; retrieved September 10, 2024</ref>.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Commercial use (specifically re-sale of the model itself) is prohibited by the base's terms of service (ToS), but it can be used as part of other content as long as the fact that the model is not included with the purchase is clearly indicated, and that credit must be given to the model author.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Notably, the avatar was featured in [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ryzSOohnIYE?t=61 HTC's U24 Pro commercial]. The company initially failed to give credit to the base creator, breaching the base's ToS, but later included credit after republishing the commercial.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==See also==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Avatars|Avatars]]
* [[Community:Furry culture in VRChat|Community:Furry culture in VRChat]]
* [[:Category:Furry avatars|Furry Avatars]]
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==References==
</div>

{{reflist}}
[[Category:Avatars{{#translation:}}]]
[[Category:Furry avatars]]
[[Category:Needs Images]]
[[Category:Assets available via Gumroad]]