{{Noticebox/Guidelines_translation}}
<languages/>
Tutto il contenuto sulla Wiki di VRChat deve essere scritto da un punto di vista neutrale (PDVN), il che implica una trasposizione giusta, proporzionata e, per quanto possibile, senza un pregiudizio editoriale, di tutto il materiale pubblicato da fonti reputabili su un determinato argomento.

Il PDVN è un principio fondamentale della Wiki, e un valore utile a determinare il tipo e la qualità di contenuto pubblicato accettabile inserito negli articoli dell'enciclopedia.
<span id="Definitions"></span>
== Definizioni ==

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Achieving what the VRChat Wiki community understands as neutrality means carefully and critically analyzing a variety of reliable sources and then attempting to convey to the reader the information contained in them fairly, proportionately, and as far as possible without editorial bias. The aim is to inform, not influence.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Editors, while naturally having their own points of view, should strive in good faith to provide complete information and not to promote one particular point of view over another. Neutrality does not mean excluding certain points of view; rather, it means including all verifiable points of view that have sufficient weight.
</div>
<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* '''Avoid stating opinions as facts.''' Articles should contain information about significant opinions expressed about their subjects. However, these opinions should not be stated in the VRChat Wiki's voice. Instead, they should be attributed in the text to particular sources or, where justified, described as widespread views. For example, an article should not state that a VRChat world is the best but may state that a particular user has described it as highly popular.
</div>
<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* '''Avoid stating seriously contested assertions as facts.''' If different reliable sources make conflicting assertions about a matter, treat these assertions as opinions rather than facts, and do not present them as direct statements.
</div>
<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* '''Prefer nonjudgmental language.''' A neutral point of view neither sympathizes with nor disparages its subject (or what reliable sources say about the subject), although this must sometimes be balanced against clarity.
</div>

Ricorda, l'obiettivo principale della Wiki di VRChat è di procurare informazioni comprovate, verificabili, e imparziali su VRChat e la sua comunità. È concesso, entro un limite, essere flessibili nello scrivere gli articoli, ma questo non deve essere d'intralcio alla neutralità e grado informativo di essi.
[[Category:VRCWiki policies{{#translation:}}]]
----
{{Navbox/Wiki_policies}}