<languages/>
{{Noticebox/Official}}
<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
{{Stub|Not much information here! You can [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:How to Contribute|contribute]], by expanding and proofreading this article, in accordance with the [[Special:MyLanguage/VRCWiki:Manual of Style|Manual of Style]].}}
'''Avatar Dynamics''', is an [[Special:MyLanguage/Avatars|avatar]] feature, initially introduced to VRChat on April 21, 2022<ref>[https://hello.vrchat.com/blog/avatar-dynamics-live VRChat Blog: Avatar Dynamics Live]</ref>. is a set of features to add more interactions between avatars. Replacing older avatar components, and adding new options for avatars. This release also introduced a new permission system to let people set who can interact with these new features.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==PhysBones==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
''See also [[Special:MyLanguage/Physbones|Physbones]] for more detailed information.''
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Physbones allows for secondary motion and interact-able bones for avatars. Allowing users to grab, move, and manipulate avatar parts (e.g., hair, ears).
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==Contacts==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
''See also [https://creators.vrchat.com/avatars/avatar-dynamics/contacts/ Contacts] for more detailed information.''
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Contacts are a system that allows avatars to detect collisions with itself or other avatars. These collisions can then be used to drive the animation controller and perform all sorts of fun effects.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==Permissions==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
The Avatar Dynamics permission system gives you complete control over who can interact with your avatar and how:
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Global Permissions===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Choose “Everyone,” “Friends,” or “Nobody” as a default setting for all users.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Per-User Overrides===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Individually grant or deny avatar interaction permissions for specific users.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Quick Toggle/Panic Mode===
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Instantly pause all interactions (regardless of any other settings) with one button press in the Quick Menu.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==References==
</div>

<references/>

[[Category:Needs images]]
[[Category:Features{{#translation:}}]]