<languages/>
{{Noticebox/Community}}Existem várias soluções para corrigir [[Special:MyLanguage/Troubleshooting|problemas]] relacionados à manter uma conexão estável com [[Special:MyLanguage/VRChat|VRChat]].
== Glossário ==
Este guia contém terminologia de informática e menciona frequentemente estas abreviaturas:

* '''DNS''' - Sistema de Nomes de Domínio: Um protocolo que localiza e conecta seu dispositivo ao endereço IP de um site.
* '''EDNS ECS''' - Mecanismos de Extensão para Sub-rede de Clientes DNS: Um mecanismo para que resolvedores DNS recursivos enviem informações parciais de endereço IP do cliente para servidores de nomes DNS autoritativos.
* '''IP''' - Endereço de Protocolo da Internet: Um endereço associado à conexão de internet do seu dispositivo, que estabelece a conexão do seu dispositivo a uma rede, como um site.
* '''ISP''' - Provedor de Serviços de Internet: Uma empresa que permite que seu dispositivo se conecte à Internet. Exemplos disso são: Claro (NET), Vivo , Tim.
* '''SO''' - Sistema Operacional.
* '''Provedor upstream''' - Um serviço que auxilia na infraestrutura de uma plataforma, neste caso, o VRChat.
* '''VPN''' - Rede Virtual Privada: Software que pode criptografar ou proteger sua conexão, através do método de 'tunelamento' com diferentes endereços IP.

== Confira os canais oficiais do VRChat ==
O VRChat oferece canais para que os usuários verifiquem se o VRChat confirmou instabilidades ou interrupções no servidor. 

Na internet:

* https://status.vrchat.com/
* https://x.com/VRChat_Status

No Discord:

* https://discord.com/channels/189511567539306508/400375734423781379

=== Provedores upstream ===
Além disso, o VRChat possui vários "provedores upstream" que afetam o login, a autorização da conta e a estabilidade do servidor.

==== Autorização de conta ====
Esses provedores upstream lidam com os dados da conta vinculados à sua "[[Special:MyLanguage/VRChat account|conta]] da [[Special:MyLanguage/Platforms|plataforma]]", bem como com os dados do jogo hospedados em suas respectivas lojas de aplicativos.

* Meta
* Steam
* Google
* PICO
* Viveport

==== Hospedagem de instâncias ====
O VRChat hospeda [[Special:MyLanguage/Instances|instâncias]] em quatro servidores diferentes via Photon, cada um vinculado a uma região específica. Ocasionalmente, pode ser necessária manutenção em um servidor, causando instabilidade em uma região por um breve período.

* Photon Engine
** Oeste dos EUA
** Leste dos EUA
** Europa
** Japão

==== Economia do Criador e compras ====
A [[Special:MyLanguage/Creator Economy|Economia do Criador]] do VRChat depende dos serviços da Thunes, anteriormente Tilia, para processar transações e verificar informações de compra entre usuários e vendedores.

* Thunes (antigamente Tilia)

==Conexão instável==
Suporte limitado a IPv6 por parte do provedor de internet

===Opção 1 - Usando um túnel VPN===
Se você estiver com problemas de conexão, pode ser uma boa ideia utilizar um túnel VPN para estabilizá-la. Observe que o uso de VPNs que ocultam seu IP ou alteram sua localização geográfica virtual pode resultar em erros e desconexões frequentes.

# [https://developers.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/warp/ WARP da Cloudflare] é um túnel VPN que visa estabilizar sua conexão e criptografar seu tráfego usando os servidores da Cloudflare, o que pode ajudar com problemas de conexão no VRChat.

## [https://developers.cloudflare.com/1.1.1.1/setup/ 1.1.1.1 da Cloudflare] é um resolvedor DNS alternativo incluído no WARP. Ele foi projetado para segurança e privacidade, criptografando parte do tráfego do seu dispositivo.

===Opção 2 - Configurando servidores DNS.===
*'''Windows10''': https://docs.quad9.net/Setup_Guides/Windows/Windows_10/
*'''Windows11''': https://docs.quad9.net/Setup_Guides/Windows/Windows_11_%28Encrypted%29/
*'''Mac''': https://docs.quad9.net/Setup_Guides/MacOS/Big_Sur_and_later_%28Encrypted%29/
*'''Linux''': https://docs.quad9.net/Setup_Guides/Linux_and_BSD/Ubuntu_22.04_%28Encrypted%29/

Os guias para as configurações de DNS acima usarão, por padrão, endereços IP que se conectam aos servidores DNS "Quad9". 
Em vez disso, utilize os endereços IP fornecidos da Cloudflare.

'''Você precisa configurar tanto o IPv4 quanto o IPv6 para que funcione sem problemas.'''
<syntaxhighlight lang="bbcode" line="1">
<IPv4>
1.1.1.1
1.0.0.1

<IPv6>
2001:4860:4860::8888
2001:4860:4860::8844
</syntaxhighlight>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
'''1.1.1.1''' (Server 1) should be your preferred address, while '''1.0.0.1''' (Server 2) should be your alternate address. 
However, you can use any of these other DNS options below. You may choose any DNS provider; options are not limited to only Cloudflare.
</div>

{| class="wikitable"
|+
|-
!<span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Provider</span>!!<span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">IPv4 Server</span>!!<span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">IPv6 Server</span>
!<span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">IPv4 Server (EDNS ECS)</span>!!<span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">IPv6 Server(EDNS ECS)</span>
|-
|[https://developers.google.com/speed/public-dns Google]||8.8.8.8
8.8.4.4
|2001:4860:4860::8888
2001:4860:4860::8844
|<span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Supported as default</span>
|<span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Supported as default</span>
|-
|[https://controld.com/free-dns Control D]||76.76.2.0
76.76.10.0
|2606:1a40::
2606:1a40:1::
|<span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Not supported</span>
|<span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Not supported</span>
|-
|[https://www.quad9.net/service/service-addresses-and-features/ Quad9]||9.9.9.9
149.112.112.112
|2620:fe::fe
2620:fe::9
|9.9.9.11
149.112.112.11
|
2620:fe::11

2620:fe::fe:11
|-
|[https://www.opendns.com/setupguide/ OpenDNS Home]||208.67.222.222
208.67.220.220
|
2620:119:35::35

2620:119:53::53
|<span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Supported as default</span>
|<span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Supported as default</span>
|-
|[https://one.one.one.one/dns/ Cloudflare]||1.1.1.1
1.0.0.1
|2606:4700:4700::1111
2606:4700:4700::1001
|<span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Not supported</span>
|<span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Not supported</span>
|-
|[https://adguard-dns.io/en/public-dns.html AdGuard DNS]||94.140.14.14
94.140.15.15
|2a10:50c0::ad1:ff

2a10:50c0::ad2:ff
|<span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Supported as default</span>
|<span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Supported as default</span>
|-
|[https://cleanbrowsing.org/filters/ CleanBrowsing]||185.228.168.9
185.228.169.9
|2a0d:2a00:1::

2a0d:2a00:2:: 
|<span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Not supported</span>
|<span lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">Not supported</span>
|}
Source: https://www.lifewire.com/free-and-public-dns-servers-2626062

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
EDNS ECS provides closer hosts, than traditional DNS servers, which sometimes is easier to use on cloud service providers who typically host worldwide.
</div> 

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
Reference: https://adguard-dns.io/en/blog/privacy-friendly-edns-client-subnet.html
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
=== Option 3 - Elevate IPv4 priority over IPv6 on Windows ===
This will prioritize using IPv4 over IPv6, without disabling IPv6 completely.
*This option may not works if your ISP stop offering IPv4 completely.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
To enable on Windows,
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Open the command prompt by pressing the "Windows Key", and typing "cmd", which opens the Command Console; then press "Run as Administrator".
* Type "netsh interface ipv6 set prefixpolicy ::ffff:0:0/96 100 4", and press the Enter key.
* This should prioritize IPv4, after restarting your PC.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
To disable IPv6 prioritization,
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* Open the command prompt again, by pressing the "Windows Key", and typing "cmd", and "Run as Administrator" again.
* Type "netsh interface ipv6 reset" and press the Enter key.
* This should revert the IPv4 prioritization after restarting your PC.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
===Option 4 - Disabling IPv6 and forcing IPv4 use (DO NOT USE)===
Many ISPs have started removing IPv4 capability completely, due to worldwide shortages of IPv4 addresses. 
If your ISP doing this, this method may not work, and may not allow you to connect to the Internet at all. 
There are some available guides on how to disable IPv6 protocol if you knows what you are doing:
*'''Windows''': https://support.surfshark.com/hc/en-us/articles/360011550199-How-to-disable-IPv6-on-Windows
*'''Mac''': https://support.surfshark.com/hc/en-us/articles/360012367560-How-to-disable-IPv6-on-macOS
*'''Linux''': https://support.surfshark.com/hc/en-us/articles/360024470413-How-to-disable-IPv6-on-a-Linux-device
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==Troubleshooting==
Connection instability may happen, due to packets being sent out of order, or having a slow or unstable internet connection. There may be several reasons as to why a connection can be unstable, however, here are some of the most common methods of troubleshooting the issue:
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
=== Update VRChat ===
VRChat may need to be updated! A message may prompt you to update your VRChat client on Steam, or the Meta store.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
=== Reboot router ===
Reboot your router, by turning off the router, waiting a couple minutes, and turning it back on.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
=== File integrity ===
Check the integrity of the firmware for your GPU drivers, or VRChat software. If necessary, you may need to reinstall VRChat.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
=== Whitelisting your antivirus or firewall ===
Make sure your firewall or antivirus software are not blocking your connection to VRChat. If necessary, VRChat and Easy Anti Cheat should be whitelisted on your antivirus or firewall softwares.
*By using "ping/nslookup/tracert" on the Command Prompt, to find out, depending if you are using a compatible operating system and software.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
=== Output logs ===
By default, VRChat's output logs are located under "%USERNAME%\AppData\LocalLow\VRChat\vrchat" and named "output_log_(date)". Check the latest dated file, and seek any instabilities with your connection to VRChat.
</div> 

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
{{VRC link|https://vrch.at/support|VRChat's User Support}}, or troubleshooting on VRChat's [[Special:MyLanguage/Discord servers|Discord servers]] may be able to find the issue, as a last resort.
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
=== System time ===
Double check your system clock, against the current time with your time zone, and make sure the time is set correctly.
[[Category:Guides{{#translation:}}]]
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
==Useful resources==
Downdetector can be used as a guide to check earlier indication of ISP issues. However, this does not always confirm issues with an upstream provider. Please use at your discretion as a margin for judgement.
</div>
{| class="wikitable"
|+ 
|-
| Downdetector US || https://downdetector.com/
|-
| Downdetector UK || https://downdetector.co.uk/
|-
| Downdetector DE || https://allestörungen.de/
|-
| Downdetector FR || https://downdetector.fr/
|-
| Downdetector ES || https://downdetector.es/
|-
| Downdetector JP || https://downdetector.jp/
|}

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
== See also ==
</div>

<div lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
* [[Special:MyLanguage/Instances|Instances]]
</div>

[[Category:Guides{{#translation:}}]]