{{Noticebox/Community}}
'''Wickerbeast''' is an open species and [[Special:MyLanguage/Avatars|avatar]] base originating from the furry fandom, featuring reptilian, troll-like creatures from the fictional world of Osova. The species was originally created by Daemon_Lady (Simone White) in 2013 and is currently managed by PineWarden. The species lore encompasses a detailed fictional world with its own religions, language, currency, and cultural traditions. Several VRChat-ready avatar models based on the Wickerbeast have been created by independent artists, making it one of the recognizable furry avatar species in VRChat alongside the [[Community:Rexouium|Rexouium]].

== World of Osova ==

Wickerbeasts inhabit a fictional world called '''Osova''', home to various species collectively referred to as "the Fera." The world features its own geography, languages, religions, and cultural systems. Creators can choose whether their Wickerbeast characters exist within the official Osova canon or in their own independent lore.

Osova is populated by several other species alongside Wickerbeasts, including the '''Etekoi''', a lemur-like anthropomorphic species with elemental powers over fire, ice, and wind, as well as healing abilities. Domesticated fauna include '''Oshari''' (two-legged, cow-like creatures raised for food, heavy lifting, and travel with plated faces and three eyes) and '''Skitadel''' (four-legged, lizard-like mounts that are the natural predator of Oshari).

=== Language and currency ===

Wickerbeasts use a written language called '''Vaeick''', a 26-sign alphabet of strokes, lines, and dots originally developed so that Wickerbeasts could carve stories into stone using their claws. The language uses signs that loosely resemble the Latin alphabet and is written in English.

The Wickerbeast currency is called '''Vipera''' (symbol: Ꞩ), named after the god of prosperity. Coins come in gold denominations (Ꞩ100, Ꞩ50, Ꞩ20) and silver denominations (Ꞩ10, Ꞩ5, Ꞩ1, Ꞩ0.50, Ꞩ0.25). High-value coins sometimes feature collectible designs on the reverse side.

== Species design ==

Wickerbeasts are large, muscular reptilian creatures characterized by a set of mandatory anatomical traits that all designs must follow. The species is open, meaning anyone can create their own Wickerbeast character as long as these core traits are respected.

* Backward-facing ears
* Pupil-less eyes
* Jagged jaw structure with serrated teeth
* Four-clawed hands and three-toed feet
* Short fur with patches of longer fur (mane-like hair)
* Horns (growing from the skull)

=== Subtypes ===

The species includes several subtypes, each with distinct physical characteristics and roles within Osova. The original four subtypes (Standard, King, Swamp, and Rogue) were introduced between 2013 and 2014. Three additional subtypes were added between 2019 and 2022: Aerions (created by Daemon_Lady) and Dwellers and Pelagics (created by PineWarden).

{| class="wikitable"
! Subtype
! Physical traits
! Role in Osova
|-
| '''Standard'''
| The most common subtype and original ancestor of land-dwelling Wickerbeasts. Average build with horns, modest mane, and moderate-sized claws.
| Highly adaptive generalists forming the bulk of the population. They gravitate toward weapon making, alchemy, crafting, engineering, and scientific research. Many volunteer for robotic enhancements to compensate for their lack of specialized traits. Nimbler than Kings but slower than Rogues.
|-
| '''King'''
| The largest subtype alongside Pelagics. Distinguished by a fluffy tail tip (unique to this subtype), heavy fur, and a bulkier build weighing 200–2,500 pounds. A mutation of the Standard.
| The leading workforce due to exceptional strength and endurance; a Kingbeast can work up to 14 hours without fatigue. They often serve as guards or manual laborers. King manes are culturally significant—adorned during courtship and combat, and offered to fire in ancestral rituals. Criminal punishment may involve public mane shaving.
|-
| '''Rogue'''
| The smallest subtype, lacking horns with minimal fur. Lightweight and nimble with very small claws.
| Survive through cleverness and strategy rather than brute strength. Often work as merchants, shopkeepers, or entertainers (rodeo clowns, jesters, circus performers). Prefer rural settings and build burrow or hobbit-like underground houses. Frequently collaborate with Dwellers in jewel mines.
|-
| '''Swamp'''
| Semi-aquatic mutation of the Standard with webbed hands and feet, a leaner build, and one to three rows of tail spikes. The only subtype permitted to have spikes or spines.
| Capable of swimming up to 55 mph and holding their breath for up to 90 minutes by "tanking up" on air. In Swamp clans, tail size and combat prowess are central to courtship. Tail spikes are extremely durable but do not regrow if broken. Communicate underwater using coded hand signs.
|-
| '''Aerion'''
| Small, gliding subtype with underarm membrane flaps, a club-like tail with up to four spikes, neck amplifier glands, and a crown of three to four nub-like horns. Features a large raptor-like talon on the inner toe.
| Live in treetop villages and serve as frontline scouts and beast tamers. Neck glands amplify hearing up to 1–2 miles. Collect tree sap, fruit, and nectar from large Passonia flowers (3–4 foot white blooms), which has medicinal properties. Aerions store nectar in throat sacs and often freeze it into treats.
|-
| '''Dweller'''
| Underground-dwelling mutation of the Standard with mismatched or matching horns, jagged cropped ears, and a tail ending in two independently mobile claws. Lanky builds with poor eyesight in bright light.
| Build underground city communities in cave and mountain systems. The primary miners and resource providers of Osova, supplying ores and minerals essential for weapon production. Use imported tree sap as adhesive to repair damaged claws and horns with shaped jewels or minerals—a technique they keep secret from other subtypes.
|-
|'''Pelagic'''
| Deep-water mutation distantly related to Swamps. Equipped with cheek gills, tail fins, underarm fins, and coral growing on their bodies. Equal in size to Kings. Skin resembles that of an orca beneath otter-like fur.
| Can only survive on land for approximately 48 hours (pain begins after 12 hours). Communicate through orca-like humming audible up to 3–4 miles. Courtship involves exchanging hand-grown corals and sea treasures. Speak of mysterious "monsters from the abyss" considered more myth than legend.
|-
|}

=== Diseases ===

Wickerbeast lore includes species-specific conditions:

* '''Berserker's Disease''' — Develops from prolonged malnutrition in famine conditions, exacerbating the species' naturally headstrong temperament into constant aggression, poor cognitive function, mania, and insomnia.
* '''Sphinx Syndrome''' — A hereditary condition in which a Wickerbeast is born hairless and deaf. Affected individuals may have horns, but these tend to be small or fragile. Kingbeasts with Sphinx Syndrome face particular social stigma in King-ruled clans, though other Kingbeasts tend to accept them.

== Culture and society ==

=== Religion ===

Wickerbeasts are polytheistic and worship multiple gods. Their primary deity is '''Idris''', the god of the sun and light. It is not uncommon for a Wickerbeast to devote themselves entirely to a single god.

{| class="wikitable"
! Deity
! Domain
|-
| Idris
| Sun and light
|-
| Vipera
| Prosperity and wealth
|-
| Asmodai
| The underworld and the dead
|-  
| Udri
| Spirits (alcohol) and ritual madness
|-
| Cidolfus
| Seafaring and the ocean
|-
| Imperia
| The moon and stars
|-
| Morden
| Courage, war, and strength
|-
| Sephiran
| Fertility, love, and beauty
|}

Each god has an associated constellation. According to Wickerbeast belief, those who find true honor in life join the goddess Imperia among the stars after death. Shooting stars are interpreted as signs of guidance or acknowledgment from Imperia, and children make wishes upon them. Solar and lunar eclipses are attributed to Idris and Imperia struggling for dominance.

=== Courting and marriage ===

Wickerbeasts engage in elaborate courtship displays that vary by individual and subtype. Common courting behaviors include dancing, singing, writing, displays of strength, or showing bioluminescence at night. Gift-giving is significant—Wickerbeasts are collectors by nature and may present shiny objects or treasured items to show admiration. Subtype-specific customs also exist: Kingbeasts adorn their manes with flowers and jewelry, Swamp Wickerbeasts emphasize tail displays and combat prowess, and Pelagics exchange hand-grown corals and sea treasures.

Marriage in Osova is a tradition of love rather than legal or economic arrangement. Wickerbeasts exchange rings, which may be worn as earrings, tail bands, claw rings, or bracelets. Female Kingbeasts retain the title "Kingbeast" rather than "Queenbeast," as Wickerbeast culture does not assign gendered titles.

=== Customs ===

* '''Vipera's Trial''' — A formal challenge to one-on-one combat, typically to the death. The victor claims the opponent's possessions and community respect. More common in rural factions and considered an old practice that is not always honored.
* '''King mane rituals''' — Kingbeasts honor deceased ancestors and loved ones by cutting a piece of their mane and offering it to fire. A King without a mane is typically shunned in King-ruled clans.
* '''Moon wisps''' — Firefly-like glowing spores from moon mushrooms, believed to represent deceased Wickerbeasts.
* '''Hidden Trail''' — A colloquial term for an illegal market where banned goods are traded, sometimes including hunted Wickerbeast parts or dangerous Fera. Typically operated by humans, though some Wickerbeasts and Etekoi participate.

=== Holidays ===

{| class="wikitable"
! Holiday
! Date
! Description
|-
| Galivaestice
| December 23
| Winter celebration equivalent to solstice holidays. A time for gift-giving and spending time with loved ones. Pronounced "Gal-IH-VAE-stice."
|-
| Remembrance Eve
| December 27
| A day for honoring those who have died or played an important role in one's life. Individuals remain at home.
|-
| Armistice Eve
| December 31
| Osova's equivalent of New Year's Eve, marked by celebration and drinking. Many travel to Grandesburg for the event.
|-
| Day of New Souls
| January 1
| Osova's equivalent of New Year's Day.
|}

== History ==

The Wickerbeast species was first conceptualized by Daemon_Lady (Simone White) in 2013, beginning with a preliminary sketch. Two additional designs were developed in late 2014. The first official community group was a Facebook page established in early 2014, with an inaugural moderation team comprising Guts, Rune (PineWarden), Hamada, Mavi, and Tombo (Wolpertingerwhite).

The original four subtypes—Standard, King, Swamp, and Rogue—were introduced during this early period. Between 2019 and 2022, three additional subtypes were added: Aerions (created by Daemon_Lady) and Dwellers and Pelagics (created by PineWarden).

On January 5, 2022, ownership and rights for the species were officially transferred to PineWarden. All subsequent development and administrative oversight has been managed by PineWarden and the current administration team. The species is considered a collaborative effort between Daemon_Lady's foundational concepts and PineWarden's developments. The original Facebook group was archived in August 2025. The species lore, design guidelines, and community resources are now maintained through the Wicker Cave website.

== Avatar bases ==

Being an open species, multiple independent creators have produced VRChat-ready models based on the Wickerbeast design. These avatars are not created by the species owners but by third-party artists.

=== Wickerbeast by Zab ===

The Wickerbeast avatar by '''Zab''' (also known as lixyco or VR_Zab) is a VRChat and VTuber-ready model first made available on Patreon in June 2020 and later on Gumroad. Zab specializes in from-scratch VR avatars and distributes models across multiple platforms.

=== Wickerbeast King by Jin A ===

The '''Wickerbeast King''' avatar by Jin A is a VRChat-ready model based on the King subtype, available on Gumroad. It features:

* PhysBones with dynamics on hair, tail, and tongue
* Poiyomi Toon shader
* 4K textures with multiple color presets
* A female variant with optional chest dynamics
* VRM conversion package for use with applications such as VSeeFace

A community-made Quest-optimized version is also available. The model has received over 900 ratings on Gumroad.

== Assets ==

A third-party accessory ecosystem has developed around the Wickerbeast avatars, with creators offering compatible add-ons across platforms such as Gumroad, and Jinxxy. Including:
* Clothing items (hoodies, sweaters, pants, swimsuits)
* Alternative textures and color packs
* Hair and horn variations
* Face tracking add-ons
* Body modification options
* Jewelry and accessories

== Resources ==

* [https://www.wickercave.net Wicker Cave] — Official species website managed by PineWarden
* [https://vr-zab.gumroad.com Zab's Gumroad] — Distribution page for Zab's Wickerbeast avatar
* [https://jinapark.gumroad.com/l/JinsWickerbeast Wickerbeast King] on Gumroad — Jin A's Wickerbeast King avatar